THE Loliondo Game Controlled Area (LGCA) will remain safeguarded even after the completion of the demarcation exercise on Thursday. This is according to an earlier directive issued by President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said on Thursday. The Premier, who was speaking after conducting an aerial inspection of the rich ecological 1,500 square kilometres area, insisted that the demarcated area will continuously be safeguarded and protected, both from the land and air. “There will be around the clock protection of this area due to its ecological importance,” explained the PM. According to Mr Majaliwa, the onus of protecting the country’s natural resources lay on Tanzanians themselves, adding that Tourism was among the country’s top economic drivers. ``We've no option other than protecting this area at any cost,” he insisted. He equally appealed to foreigners who live near the LGCA to support the government of Tanzania in protecting and safeguarding the area for the conservation and tourism related- benefits of both countries. “We expect that they share similar sentiments, lest we want to put wildlife conservation in peril,” the Prime Minister said. The Premier has in the same vein, urged Tanzanians naysayers who wished to see the demarcation exercise getting derailed to trust the government. Mr Majaliwa said it was sad to note distortions emanating from the just-completed exercise, getting peddled by some individuals. He equally reserved praise for the multi-agency taskforce for accomplishing the task of erecting 424 beacons in the area, an exercise which began on June 9th, this year. The beacons which stand at 40 centimetres each are said to be 500 metres apart, spanning a distance of 108 kilometres. On his part, Arusha Regional Commissioner John Mongela informed the PM that the first beacon will be named ‘Garlus Point’, in honor of Garlus Mwita Garlus, a police officer, whose life was cut short by an arrow strike on June 10th, this year, while manning the mounting of beacons. Earlier yesterday, the Prime Minister also saw off a second batch of Ngorongoro residents, who volunteered to relocate to Msomera village in Handeni District, Tanga Region. Flagging off the 127 residents from 27 households, the PM commended them for such a bold move, assuring them of full cooperation from the government. He lauded the residents for their willingness to foster conservation within the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA), assuring of a conducive environment in their new habitat. For his part, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) Acting Conservation Commissioner Christopher Timbuka revealed that a total 233 residents had voluntarily relocated to Msomera since the exercise began on June 20, this year. The exercise had taken into account valuation and validation of the residents’ properties, according to Dr Timbuka. On Wednesday, the government announced that it had completed the construction of some social infrastructures at Msomera village to accommodate Ngorongoro residents, who have voluntarily relocated from NCA. The Minister of State, President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government Innocent Bashungwa said in a virtual meeting that the government is currently financing the remaining projects at Msomera. He said, so far, the government has completed construction of primary and secondary schools to enable children of the new residents to have access to education nearby their homes. “The schools have laboratories and teachers’ offices. The government has also completed renovation of the health centre in the area, a move that aims at guaranteeing better health for the residents,” noted the minister. He assured the government’s determination to ensure the construction of roads within Msomera village is complete within a short period to ensure all residents are well connected.