MINISTRY of Natural Resources and Tourism has outlined measures to promote Kalambo Falls in Rukwa Region in order to attract more tourists. The Natural Resources and Tourism Deputy Minister Mary Masanja informed the House here yesterday that among the measures were use of media, and preparation of brochures for people to get correct information about the tourist site. She said the government has also been participating in various exhibitions, festivals and tourism and business symposiums being held within and outside the countries, with the aim of ensuring effective promotion of the waterfalls. The deputy minister said following the measures taken, 2,365 tourists visited Kalambo Falls in 2021 compared to 300 only who visited the site in 2016. She said that the ministry will also put adverts of the waterfall in airports including Songwe Airport in Rukwa region. Ms Masanja was responding to a basic question by Josephat Kandege Kalambo MP (CCM) who wanted to know government strategies of promoting Kalambo Falls which is the second uninterrupted falls in Africa so that it can contribute significantly to the country’s economy. In his supplementary question Kandege also wanted to know why the waterfalls is being managed by Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS) instead of other institutions under the ministry responsible for promoting various tourism attractions in the country. Responding, the deputy minister said that in addition to the steps taken, the government has started constructing road infrastructures at the area and plans were under way to use cable cars to get to the water falls a move expected to attract more tourists from within and outside the country. She said in addition to that the ministry is constructing a bridge which will connect Tanzania and Zambia as strategy to attract more visitors. She further explained that Kalambo falls is managed by TFS because it is within the forest reserve and has natural vegetation which is a source of water. “Kalambo Falls is managed by proper institution because it is also responsible for managing forests and some water sources,” she said. Kalambo Falls is the second uninterrupted fall in Africa after Tugela Falls in South Africa, It is located on the Kalambo River near the southeastern shore of Lake Tanganyika on Tanzania – Zambia border in Kalambo district.