LIVES of nearly half a million people have been upgraded, thanks to the initiative of a nonprofit organization, Innovation: Africa, that has executed solar and water projects in 119 villages across Dodoma and Coast regions of Tanzania. Harnessing energy from the sun, Innovation: Africa installs solar water pumping systems which pump safe and clean water from as deep as 180 metres beneath the ground throughout communities. Communities in question include those living in Mazengo, Muungano – Chikopelo, Huzi, Kawawa, Chikowa and Chomozoche villages. These water projects cost 55,000 US dollars and are paid for by families, corporations and foundations. Furthermore, Innovation: Africa installs solar energy in rural schools and health centres at a cost of 20,000 US dollars with solar energy electricity for lights is installed throughout the school/ medical centres as well as in the homes of the teachers/nurses. With electricity, the facilities will be able to utilise laptops, essential medical equipment and most centrally, power a vaccine refrigerator, which given the current pandemic is more critical than ever. In an interview with this paper, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Innovation: Africa Sivan Yaari said the implementation of the projects is efficient, impactful and completed at extremely high standards. “Our solar projects take up to two months to install and our water projects between four and six months depending on the season and drilling conditions,” Yaari said. Adding; “So far, since 2008, Innovation: Africa has completed 119 solar and water projects in Dodoma, transforming the lives of nearly half a million people”. According to Yaari, providing water to an entire village is a gift that will immeasurably change the lives of thousands of community members. “At the highest level, water will improve the health of the villagers, enable more students to attend school and alleviate pressure on the women who are no longer required to travel significant distances to collect water from contaminated sources and can now use their time more effectively,” she said. In turn, economic stability begins to take place, as businesses are established, including brick-making and agricultural programs as they are able to grow vegetables and sell the surplus in local markets. With electricity, the facilities will be able to utilize laptops, essential medical equipment and most centrally, power a vaccine refrigerator, which given the current pandemic is more critical than ever. Expounding, the CEO said the organisation is looking forward to expanding to other regions across Tanzania in the near future. On executing the projects, Innovation: Africa works closely with different government ministries to ensure effective implementation of the development programs. Some of the ministries working closely with Innovation: Africa include the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology as well as the ministry of Water. “This aims at understanding their policy and rural electrification-water network plans and how best Innovation; Africa can assist communities in need,” said Ms Yaari. Implementation of the projects comes with a number of opportunities for locals who were involved in the construction of solar water pumping systems where 10 local community members were hired and trained in the construction process. Ms Yaari noted that, these up-skilled community members are then able to ensure the long term sustainability of the water project as they are able to successfully complete small maintenance and repairs, should the system require. “Each trainee who completes the training programme also receives a certificate confirming their skills which further assists with their future employment opportunities,” he said further. Adding; “Developing the skills of our community members as we work towards providing each village with access to clean water plays a pivotal role in fostering economic independence thereby reducing inequality and helping to break the cycle of poverty”. For their part, beneficiaries of the project commended the Innovation: Africa for its strategy in uplifting their living standard by bringing closer social services. One of the residents of Mbalawala village, Ms Rebecca said that Innovation: Africa has transformed her life since they provided her community with access to clean water . “Before Innovation: Africa came to our village in 2020, we had to walk kilometers each day, in search of water from open and contaminated sources,” she said. Shortages of safe water caused her family and community to suffer from severe waterborne illnesses and her granddaughter Catherine, was forced to miss school as she walked each morning to help her carry the water back to our homes. “Thanks to Innovation: Africa, our prayers were answered and now we have safe and clean just meters from our home. We are safer, healthier and have started growing our own vegetables that we can eat and even sell to other community members,” she said.