THE government expects to coordinate six Cultural Festivals in 26 regions and a National Cultural Festival that aims to promote cultural tourism in Tanzania. This was stated by the Minister of Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa while presenting his ministerial budget for the fiscal year 2022/2023 in the parliament on Monday. The Minister noted President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s efforts to promote our country’s art and culture internationally through the Royal Tour film has opened doors for TaSUBa Art Group to grab the opportunity to perform in New York on April 18th, 2022 and Los Angeles on April 21st, 2022. He applauded them for grabbing the opportunity and revealed that in the 2022/2023 budget, the government expects to assist TaSUBa in enrolling 600 students for long courses and 150 for short programmes. The government also plans to continue renovating the dormitories, the main hall, the recreation and leisure halls, and the construction of a fence around the college to help them conduct six seminars, eight workshops and various cultural conferences. As well, the government also hopes to build a state-of-the-art recording and film studio and prepare the preparation of the Radio and Television Centre. Additionally, the government expects to evaluate the possibility of establishing a single training campus outside Bagamoyo, where it will help run the 41st Bagamoyo International Arts and Culture Festival. He added that the government had revived a cultural and arts development fund stalled since 2013. “The fund will now be the catalyst for the growth of the cultural and arts sectors through lending, grants and youth empowerment by training organizers of cultural and arts activities,” he said. Mchengerwa said that the government will provide 500m/- and contribute to the cultural fund within the ministry’s budget to start the lending process. Also, Mchengerwa revealed that the government expects to invite all tribes countrywide to participate in the festival to promote cultural tourism. During his presentation, Mchengerwa said that from July 2021 to April 2022, Sukuma and Nyamwezi cultural festivals were among the notable festivals held from 7th to 8th September 2021 at the Red Cross stadium Mwanza. At the Moshi Co-operative University, the Kilimanjaro region held the festival that involved the Chagga, Pare and Maasai communities held on January 22nd 2022. In addition, the budget presented that the ministry, in partnership with stakeholders, coordinated a customary rituals ceremony for the Luguru community held from October 16th to 17th, 2021, by the King Mwanabanzi XV Empire at Kinole village in Morogoro. “The purpose of the ritual was to pray for our nation against various plagues including the flu caused by Covid 19, droughts and other disasters,” said Mchengerwa. He also noted they coordinated the festivals to avoid the nation’s disasters. Other festivals included the maritime war memorial festival held from February 24th to 27th, 2022, in the Ruvuma region.