DODOMA regional authorities are planning to strengthen mechanisms for promoting and developing various innovations and inventions to make the region becomes a hub of innovations in the country. Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Anthony Mtaka directed region's executives to look for best ways of creating friendly-environment to promote innovations at the regional level to stimulate the culture of innovations in the society. He made statement recently during technical and innovations exhibition which was organized by his office in collaboration with the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT). RC Mtaka expressed his wish of seeing the region becomes a hub of creativity. He pointed out that, through innovations Dodoma region may generate more jobs for youth as a result of stimulating the economy. He also instructed experts in all councils within the region to encourage the youth who have innovations that could help in solving various challenges in the community. However, Mr Mtaka asked the DIT through its subsidiary company (DIT Holding Company Limited) to ensure it require patent rights for their inventions to avoid others steal such inventions. "This is my advice, if you have any innovations, you should register and start developing them for selling, there is no reason to keep complaining when you are sitting with such innovations in shelves," he advised. Moreover, he District Commissioners in the region to collaborate with the institute (DIT) for finding various systems that will help them respond to various challenges in their areas. DIT Company Limited Marketing Manager, Ms Agnes Kimwaga said the Institute has started marketing its various innovations that have been made by its students. "This company will be selling the innovations that have been made by taking them to the market instead of keeping them in the shelves," said Ms Kimwaga. Also, she hinted that before the establishment of the company, many innovations were left and locked up in office shelves instead of benefiting the communities. "We have been coming up with various innovations that have been ending up in the shelves. Now we have decided to develop and trade them," explained Mr Kimwaga, thanked the RC Mtaka for being willing to work with DIT on various innovative and creative activities.