THE 29th round of NBC Premier League winds up with four teams battling it up for maximum three points today. The former champions Simba face Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya while Mtibwa Sugar are at their Manungu Complex in Morogoro hosting Namungo in another thrilling match.  A negative result for Tanzania Prisons will increase their relegation chances as water levels are rising high for them to swim to safety. The fight to escape relegation is so far very interesting meaning that the final games scheduled on June 29th will be a good judge to know which two sides will automatically exit from the league. It has been a rough ride for Tanzania Prisons who are struggling to make ends meet and have so far lost 14 matches from 28 encounters they have played which has seen them gathering 26 points. For Simba, they will be searching to maintain their unbeaten status in post Pablo Franco era as they have won all three games played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium hence an opportunity to stretch further their positive performance. Their latest game was a convincing 2-0 triumph over Mtibwa Sugar courtesy of Pape Sakho and Peter Banda first half goals which gave them deserved three points on the day. Under the tutelage of caretaker coach Selemani Matola, the Reds are leaving no stone unturned as they want to finish the campaign on a gas pedal without dropping any essential points on the way. Matola has since become the driving force for Simba's recent performance as morale has been restored in the team with each player looking ready to support his side stamp success. Simba's last game of the campaign will be at Majimaji Stadium in Songea against Mbeya Kwanza as the latter seem to have already faced the exit door.  At Manungu Complex, Mtibwa Sugar will be eager to get back to winning ways after losing their past game 2-0 to Simba hence a nice opportunity to utilise well their home venue. Coincidentally, they interface an injured side which also lost their past game 1-0 to Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium as such, the 90 minutes of play will seemingly be tense to both teams and a team which has had enough preparations will grab a victory. For the Lindi-based side, they are searching for a chance to finish the season on top four category which can earn them an opportunity to play in CAF Interclub games next term.