THE former Young Africans Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila has described the team's newly- signed striker Lazarous Kambole as a great player who will help to bring a different rhythm in the champions’ squad. Yanga paraded the former Kaizer Chiefs ‘hitman’ on Thursday night and has become the first foreign-based player to land at Jangwani street ahead of the  2022/23 season. "He is a good player and I believe that he will add a new dimension at the club. He had a fruitful time at Kaizer Chiefs and now it is time for him to show his ability at a different team," he noted. However, in another development, Yanga's Spokesperson Haji Manara disclosed that they expect to receive 28th league title after their match against Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya next weekend. "We are going to receive our silverware in Mbeya on June 25th and on June 26th, Dar es Salaam is set to be paralysed as we will be landing with our trophy from Mbeya. We want to teach people how to celebrate the championship," he said. However, speaking on how they intend to strengthen the squad, Manara reiterated that they are just improving it but not necessarily to rebuild saying that is the reason they are targeting only four players. "We do not expect to reshuffle the technical bench meaning that Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi and his entire team will continue to be there and we are going to have a good pre-season drills which we have never experienced before," he said. Moreover, Manara pointed out that the slogan 'Return of Champions' has already started bearing fruits after clinching their 28th premier league title and that it will be sealed when they win the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) silverware. Basing on the club transformation strategies they are currently implementing, Manara said Yanga will be the first club in the country to win the CAF Interclub championship. "In order to grab such decorated titles, you need to have a well transformed team which is run in a modern way that is why I insist that Yanga will amicably achieve success in international games because they are doing well in club transformation agendas," he said. Up next, Yanga host Polisi Tanzania at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday before heading to face Mbeya City and their last game of the campaign will be against Mtibwa Sugar in the city. As such; their unbeaten run is going to be challenged by Polisi Tanzania, Mbeya City and Mtibwa Sugar with nine points on stake.