A SUPPLIER of water related equipment in the East African region, Davis & Shirtliff has called on the government to formulate policies that promote development and provision of affordable modern food production techniques and irrigation technology. The supplier said these policies will make it possible for small holder farmers in the country to access finances and vital technologies that encourage use of less water and cheap solar power, sustainably boosting their productivity and income. Davis & Shirtliff Tanzania Managing Director Benjamin Munyao said Africa is a continent largely dependent on agriculture which is rain-fed, and only about 6.0 per cent of the arable land is irrigated. “The continent could cement food security and likely even triple food exports if we harvest water and exploit our large underground aquifers that are literally untapped resources for irrigation,” said Mr Munyao. Water occurrence in terms of quality and quantity is a fading resource in Tanzania and elsewhere in Africa making it increasingly difficult for farmers to source water for optimal plant performance. “It is therefore only by use of technologies that guarantee optimal application rates and performance monitoring in irrigation as well as addressing matters of water quality that we are able to achieve the desired effects on plant health and overall output,” he said. More than 75 per cent of food is produced by small scale farmers who own less than 10 acres of land in Africa. “Most of these technologies are way above what most farmers can afford. That’s why proper incentives and access to finance will help provide complete cost-effective solutions at all levels while taking a holistic approach to various challenges faced by water users,” he said. The firm is pushing for more adoption of irrigation solutions starting with the smallest modular drip kits that can be scaled to larger areas, automation options for all systems, fertilizer injectors, portable and fixed sprinkler sets as well as large scale centre pivots and hose reels. “If we put these small-scale irrigation technologies such as modular drip kits, portable and fixed sprinkler sets, water capture and storage devices, we will boost food production, reduce poverty and spur economic growth in these uncertain times,” Munyao said.