THE arts, culture and entertainment industry is to see a new dawn due to the government's commitment in transforming the industry into a friendly environment that enhances creativity. The government has seen it as necessary for the arts, culture, and entertainment sector to be improved as it is among the rapidly growing sectors in Tanzania, making many youths self-employed while also increasing the national income. This improvement is crucial for the nation, as Finance and Planning Minister Mwigulu Nchemba revealed when presenting the government's budget for the 2022/23 financial year that the government aims to combat poverty. Hence, it should improve the economic environment to help youth boost their per capita income. In its transformation bid, the government expects to offer to this sector, including coordinating six cultural festivals in 26 regions and the National Cultural Festival as well as to promote cultural tourism in Tanzania. It also expects to assist TaSUBa in enrolling 600 students for long courses and 150 others for short programmes. The government also plans to continue renovating the college’s dormitories, the main hall, the recreation and leisure halls, and constructing a fence around the college to help them conduct six seminars, eight workshops and various cultural conferences. The government also hopes to build a state-of-the-art recording and film studio and the preparation of the Radio and Television Centre. It is also committed to improve the status of the film industry by driving significant transformations that will align with the demands of arts stakeholders. The transformation includes conducting 48 operations to hunt down the illegal operation of film activities that do not comply with the laws and regulations. Other than cracking down on those piracies, they will issue certificates and licences for the operation of film activities. This includes issuing 1,200 identity cards (IDs) to film stakeholders and reviewing, grading and issuing 1,500 film screening licences to the public. The Minister also noted they would review and analyse 1,500 film and theatre production and licensing applications. The Ministry will improve the use of various electronic systems to serve artists and other arts stakeholders to enhance efficiency in service delivery, facilitate the formalisation of the arts sector and innovative and more prominent activities, and increase artists' revenue and the government through royalty collection. These include monitoring the use of works of art, especially music and film, in the media, a system for distributing artists' works, such as Netflix and a system for recording and managing information for artists and art stakeholders. In addition, the Ministry expects to widen the capacity building for stakeholders and establish and develop programmes for the promotion and development of the film industry. "The Ministry shall coordinate and facilitate seminars, stakeholder meetings, one symposium, and five concerts.