THE government has signed a grant agreement with Swedish Embassy amounting to Swedish Kronor 196.3 million (equivalent to 44.3bn/-) for financing the Productive Social Safety Net Phase II (PSSN II).
The grant is funded by the European Union and will be managed by Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) for Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) PSSN II.
Speaking during the signing ceremony in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Emmanuel Tutuba, said the fund will contribute to reducing the financing gap under the programme.
“The objective of the EU support to PSSN II is to promote women’s economic services,” said Tutuba.
Mr Tutuba said the PSSN II will be achieved significantly as it engages beneficiary households with labour capacity in productive work to improve their livelihoods, increase income and create community assets.
“The PSSN II programme comprises the provision of Conditional Cash Transfer Programme to eligible and duly registered households, including carrying out activities for labour-intensive public work designed to generate temporary employment opportunities to Public Works Programme beneficiaries in eligible households with labour capacity to implement community sub project,” he said.
Mr Tutuba explained further that the PSSN II intends to improve and carry out programme activities including, basic and livelihood enhancement programme designed to promote self employment, wage employment savings and investments, deliver entrepreneurial skills training and the provision of grants to eligible beneficiaries.
“These include strengthening institutional capacity and integrated delivery system and involve carrying out a programme of activities designed to enhance the institutional capacity, services and implementation of the project,” said Mr Tutuba.
By May 2022 at least some 2,674 projects were successfully implemented to provide temporary employments to the beneficiary households with a total of 25.14bn/-.
Elaborating, Mr Tutuba noted that the programme has impacted a lot in Mainland and Zanzibar, where poverty was reduced by 8 per cent and the ability to afford basic needs has improved.
He said the government will take all necessary measures to ensure the successful implementation of the PSSN II in order to fully achieve the intended objectives.
On her part, Head of Development Cooperation at the Swedish Embassy, Ms Sandra Diesel said her country and the EU delegation will support the PSSN II scheme from 2022 to 2025.
She said the EU aims to support women’s economic empowerment by supporting poor households’ access to manage their own income earnings. Ms Diesel said the evaluation of PSSN Phase I is a strong evidence of enhanced opportunities to get an income for the families and to send children to school as well as have access to better health care. 