THE newly-signed Simba striker Moses Phiri said the reason which compelled him to land at the club is to help them win trophies while insisting that he is happy to be part of the Msimbazi Street Reds family. The former champions have begun squad reformation by bringing on board the Zambian player who will be donning red and white shirt in the coming season. "I feel so good to be part of this family...it is a dream come true. The most important thing is that I am here to win trophies with Simba and I pray to God that people should welcome me with both hands. "I cannot say that I will be just scoring goals each and every day but I promise that with the abilities I have, I will seriously work hard so that I get a chance to score," Phiri said briefly. However, the 29-year old was officially unleashed to the public on Wednesday night through the club's official Instagram page which introduced him to the country's football fraternity saying he is going to perform wonders at the end of 2022/23 season. He has therefore become the first player to be injected into the Simba army as they target to make a number of fresh signings to strengthen further the squad prior to the start of the next campaign. The former Zanaco player has  joined his two Zambian colleagues in the name of Clatous Chama and Larry Bwalya who together will be contributing their services to ensure their team meet the desired goals. Who will join him at the club next remains unknown, but it is evident that Simba are going to make a lot of changes in their current squad in order to regain its lost glory after losing two major titles in this  year’s campaign. The Msimbazi Street giants officially surrendered the Premier League championship on Wednesday night to their traditional rivals Young Africans following the latter's 3-0 victory over Coastal Union. However, Simba fans are anxiously waiting to establish who will be their new Head Coach in the upcoming season after the departure of Pablo Franco following mutual agreement between the two sides. The team is currently under the tutelage of Assistant Coach Selemani Matola who is set to take charge of the affairs until the end of the season and thereafter, the new coach will be left with the responsibilities to drive it forward. Recently, Simba's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally elaborated that the new coach will be paraded soon so that he can have the opportunity to watch at least two to three of their remaining games. He also pointed out that the new trainer will therefore receive the full report left by his predecessor so that he can know where to start as far as taking charge of the team is known.