IN a bid to enhance health services in the country, the Dodoma-based Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) plans to team up with Cuban leading health facilities. The Executive Director of the BMH, Dr Alphonce Chandika, said here on Tuesday evening that, plans were underway by the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital to partner with Cuban hospitals in order to borrow a leaf of experience. “We have plans to conduct medics exchange programmes between our hospital and leading Cuban hospitals in order to borrow a leaf of experience,” said the Hospital’s boss while briefing new Cuban Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Yordenis Despaigne Vera. The new Cuban envoy visited the BMH shortly after presenting a letter of credential to President Samia Suluhu Hassan, at the Chamwino State House in Dodoma on Tuesday afternoon. He has replaced Professor Lucas Domingo Hernandez Polledo whose tenure has expired. Dr Chandika expressed gratitude to the Cuban Ambassador for the visit to the BMH and he said the BMH was still in need of Cuban specialists to enhance health services at the 400-bed hospital. “BMH is one of the beneficiaries of Cuban medics... because we have four Cuban medics here at the BMH and we are still in need of more Cuban specialists to enhance our health services,” he said. On his part, Cuban Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Yordenis Despaine Vera, pointed out that at least 800 Cuban medics have served Tanzania’s health sector since Cuba commenced to send its medics to Tanzania in 1968. “We feel African nations still owe to us for the support they had accorded to us during the Cuban revolution because there were some Africans who fought alongside our fighters during the revolution,” said the Cuban envoy. Mr Despaigne Vera said Tanzania and Cuba have good bilateral relations since the leadership of the founding father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Cuban leader Fidel Castro, saying Cuban has partnered with Tanzania in different sectors since independence. Four Cuban medics working with the BMH are Dr Marlon Pila Bandera, (neurosurgeon specialist), Dr Reginaldo Sarria Duvergel (Kidney Transplant Specialist), Dr Felipe Cabrera Nieves (gastroentologist specialist) and an Intensive Care nurse Niusy Martinez Matamoro.