ZANZIBAR First Vice President, Othman Masoud Othman, has urged the public to be proactive in conserving the environment by implementing climate change adaptation and mitigation measures. The First VP made the remark here recently during the commemoration of the World Environment Day which is normally marked on June 5 every year. He said that this year’s theme ‘Only One Earth’ reminds people that “this planet is our only home and we must live in harmony with nature for the welfare of both present and future generations. “We have the responsibility to protect the environment in Zanzibar for the current and future generations and make Zanzibar a safe place to live. We can reduce impacts of climate change by tacking various measures aimed at conserving environment,” Othman said. He said that shade trees shades found in various places in Zanzibar is the result of efforts by previous generations which took action to preserve the environment. Speaking to the residents of North Pemba Island, at the climax of World Environment Day (WED), he said the world is now facing negative impacts of climate change, thus it is the public responsibility to find ways to address the challenges. He also urged people to do their best to protect the marine environment, while refraining from cutting mangroves, which helps to protect beaches and land from eroding, one of the effects of climate change causing sea rise. “The sea water is also looking for the place to occupy the land, sometimes it may be difficult to stop it, therefore let us avoid cutting down trees to preserve and protect our environment and reduce the rising sea level,” he said. The First Vice-President emphasized that in order to ensure Zanzibar and Tanzania remain safe, we must work together to protect and honor our marine and land around us. “In making Zanzibar greener than before, we need to work hard to plant different types of trees, including fruit trees and other trees of value in the market,” he said. He said that originally, Zanzibar was green, but now due to reckless human activities and climate change, nature is being ruined, some trees have disappeared and a decline in honey production. “Let everyone get involvedto make Zanzibar greener: individuals, government institutions, schools and colleges, must plant trees,” the first vice-chancellor emphasized as he encouraged people to reduce use of wood and charcoal, by using environmentally friendly cooking stoves and natural gas. The gathering to mark WED was also an opportunity for the first vice president to urge people to stop inappropriate dumping of garbage in homes, hospitals and commercial areas, and avoid unplanned construction, particularly in water sources and agriculture areas