PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said the national tree planting and maintenance initiative is progressing well, with 27 out of 184 councils exceeding the target of 1.5 million trees planted per annum. The Premier described the initiative as one of the government’s forest conservation and development goals. More than 202,923,907 trees were planted in 2020/2021, with 165,501,119 trees flourishing, equivalent to an 81.6 per cent success rate in the 27 councils, revealed Mr Majaliwa. The Prime Minister made the remarks when launching a tree-planting campaign in Dodoma’s Mtumba government city yesterday. “For the development and prosperity of our country, Tanzanians should continue to actively participate in the exercise and be fully engaged in protection of trees and forests,” he said. He stated that the issue of tree planting and conservation is critical for the national environment's well-being, since it goes hand in hand with climate change resilience and enables the environment to be greener and more attractive landscapes. “All birds, as well as wildlife, rely on trees for food and shelter. Trees provide food and other essentials to livestock and humans alike. “The forestry sector provides 45 per cent of construction material needs, protects water sources, and minimises soil erosion,” he stated. Mr Majaliwa said that the government through the Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) has established large tree nurseries to ensure the initiative succeeds. Speaking on the ‘Make Dodoma Green’ Campaign, Mr Majaliwa said that during the year 2021/2022, a total of 692,247 trees were planted in all districts of the Dodoma Region. “In Dodoma Urban 584,790 trees were planted; Mpwapwa District 21,450 trees; Bahi District 20,720 trees; Chamber District 4,000 trees; Kongwa District 45,587 trees; Kondoa District 11,200 trees; and Chamwino District 4,500 trees,” he remarked. In addition, he has instructed TFS in collaboration with the team that oversees and coordinates the construction of government city, to ensure that trees are planted and maintained in designated areas including ensuring that irrigation systems are installed as soon as possible. The Premier also instructed environmentalists to educate the community on the importance of tree planting based on the climate of the area, so that the planting can be productive. “There have been various efforts to plant trees, not to stress the trees being planted based on the advice of our experts. I call on experts to invest in quality seed production so that tree planting can be more productive,” said Mr Majaliwa. The Minister of State, Vice-President's Office (Union and Environment) Dr Selemani Jafo said they were determined to continue giving priority to the environmental protection agenda. “We cannot move our economy forward if we ignore this agenda and stop caring for our environment,” said Dr Jafo. The theme for World Environment Day to be celebrated on June 5th this year is ‘Tanzania is One; Conserve the environment In 2017 ‘Make Dodoma Green’ Campaign was launched, where it was revealed that 61 per cent of the country risked becoming a desert, calling for the campaign to spread beyond Dodoma Region to the national level. Following that, the government announced that everyone should plant at least two trees at home: one for fruit and one for shade. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa has directed the Minister of State in the President’s office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PMORALG) Mr Innocent Bashungwa and other executives in the ministry to prioritize revenue collection in their areas to beef up government revenues. He issued the directives on Tuesday, when he met with Minister Bashungwa, his deputies, Permanent Secretary, Deputy Permanent Secretaries as well as District Executive Directors and heads of institutions under the ministry in Dodoma to remind them of their responsibilities.