MINISTRIES of Energy and the President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government Authorities (PORALG) are planning to convert all their vehicles from gasoline consumption to compressed Natural Gas (CNG). This is part of the government's efforts to encourage the use of natural gas in the country, a move that will also play part in reducing pollution and fighting climate change. Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Energy, Eng Felchesmi Mramba said this during an online meeting held to discuss the use of alternative sources of energy in motor vehicles. He said most Tanzanians have responded positively in the government’s call to adopt the use of natural gas that is now available in the country. “We at the ministry of energy have resolved to convert all our vehicles to the use of   natural gas, we have also communicated with PORALG for them to do the same on all vehicles that will be imported,” he said. He said to begin with, the ministry has converted the gasoline vehicles, waiting for the technology that will be used to transform diesel engines. “Most of the government vehicles use diesel, we are considering transforming them once the technology is available in the country,” he said. According to him, natural gas that has been discovered in Tanzania is safe and competitive in the world market as it has low carbon dioxide and sulfur. “Use of CNG is more economical compared to petrol and diesel as natural gas costs a lot less than the two fuel types. The government continues to encourage Tanzanians to opt for it since the price of fuel on the global market is still high,” he added. Even though natural gas is also a nonrenewable resource, and does pollute the environment, it is safer than both petrol and diesel for the planet because natural gas sends 25 per cent less carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Oil and gas exploration started in the 1950's and there are some achievements that were made. However, the discovery of natural gas was done in 1970s at Songosongo and later on in 1982 at Mnazi Bay. Between 2010 and 2012, gas exploration continued, and by May a total of 57.54 trillion cubic feet of natural gas was discovered in various parts of the country, onshore and offshore. Participating in the forum, the Ambassador of Tanzania to Germany, Dr Abdallah Possi said there is need for the county to continue putting in place supportive infrastructure to support the use of CNG vehicles in the country. He said the move will attract more investment and use of vehicles in Tanzania which in turn will help in fighting pollution and effects of climate change. “The technology is changing so quickly, right now here in   Europe they have resolved to stop manufacturing gasoline vehicles, we shouldn’t be left behind on this,” he explained. For his part, the Director General of Energy and Water Regulatory Authority (EWURA) Eng Modestus Lumato said they will continue creating public awareness on the use of natural gas.