SIMBA have officially pulled out in the race to sign USGN’s  attacking midfielder Adebayor Victorien saying he is being targeted by many clubs and his price tag is higher than the club’s current signing package. Confirming this yesterday was the club's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally who said initially, the two parties had fruitful discussions and the player himself was interested to join Simba, but suddenly, things changed. "It is true that we showed strong interest to sign him and he was also ready to land at our club, but other teams have also joined the race to win his signature and have put on the table bigger deals. "This is how player business in football works since things can change at any moment. For us, we always thrive to accomplish our deals according to the available budget hence we have decided to give up the chase," he said. He then assured Simba fans to be calm during this period as they try to bring on board players who will put it all on the battlefield to help the club retain its reputation next season. "They should be aware that we have competent leaders who are watchful and are aware which areas need improvement in the squad for it to comeback stronger next season. Everything will be alright," he said. Elaborating on the progress to get new Head Coach, Ally pointed out that so far, procedures are going on  well and the eligible trainer will be announced soon and he will have an opportunity to watch  at least three of the league matches. "Our aim is to bring him early before the campaign climaxes so that he can see some of the remaining league games and provide his insights. Thereafter, he will be given full report left by his predecessor Pablo Franco for further analysis. "From there, the new coach will be officially handed over the team ahead of the coming season which I believe will be a successful one," he added. Furthermore, Ally disclosed that there is no need for Simba family to feel bad after failing to defend two major titles; Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and Premier League saying what has happened make the contest competitive. "If we had managed to retain the two titles, the league could have lost its competitiveness but now, it has shown that it is no longer a one man's show," he said. The Msimbazi Street Reds have three back to back home league fixtures as they face Mbeya City on Thursday before hosting KMC on Sunday and Mtibwa Sugar on June 23rd this year.