THE High Court’s Corruption and Economic Crime Division has sentenced a drug dealer, Simon Andrew Boaa to 24 years’ imprisonment for trafficking in Catha edulis (Khat) commonly known as Mirungi weighing 116.16 kilogrammes, which are narcotic drugs. Judge Immaculata Banzi imposed such sentence against the accused person, recently after convicting him of the offence he was charged with. She ruled that the prosecution managed to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. Since the accused person was found in possession of the drugs in question in the course of shifting from one point to another, it was the finding of the court that his act amounted to trafficking as per definition of the trafficking under section 2 of the Drugs Act. “I find the accused person, Simon Andrew Boaa guilty and I hereby convict him with the offence of trafficking in narcotic drugs (.......).I hereby sentence the accused person to serve 24 years in prison,” the judge declared. She took into consideration the Tanzania Sentencing Manual for Judicial Officers, where a convict of drug trafficking offence under section 15 (1) (a) of the Drug Control and Enforcement Act can be sentenced with a minimum sentence of 20 years towards 30 years which is maximum penalty. The judge also considered the submission by prosecution of no previous criminal record against the accused and the effect of narcotic drugs on human being, as well as mitigation factors as submitted by defence that the accused is the first offender, he spent three years in custody and having dependants. She was also aware that trafficking of narcotic drugs is a serious offence and on the effects of Catha edulis on human being because according to Analyst report, it causes drug dependence and mental disorder. “But taking into consideration that the accused person has no criminal records for being first offender and the time he had already spent in custody which is more than three years, it is my considered view that he deserves lenient sentence,” Judge Banzi ruled. During the trial, the prosecution had told the court that the accused person, who was jointly charged with another person, Abushi Abudallah, who escaped from custody, committed the offence on February 2, 2019, at Kwa Msomali Bomang’ombe area, within Hai District in Kilimanjaro Region. After hearing the evidence tendered by both prosecution and defence witnesses, the judge had to determine three questions including whether 530 bundles of leaves were seized from the motor vehicle with registration number T443DETmake Toyota Noah. She had also to determine whether on the material night, the accused person was arrested in the motor vehicle in question and whether chain of custody was maintained.