YOUNG Africans have disclosed that part of the 600m/- they expect to pocket for winning the NBC Premier League championship will be used to polish further the squad during pre-season drills. The club’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingiza said this recently in Dar es Salaam as he responded to a question concerning how they plan to prepare for the upcoming CAF Interclub games. “We have heard that when we win the league title, we are going to receive 600m/- which will help us a lot in our pre-season drills in terms of whether we need to go outside the country or not,” he said. Adding, the CEO pointed out that they expect to sign at least three to four new players from outside the country who he said will make the current squad stronger ready to conquer any team in the looming CAF matches. “As management of the club, we are doing everything possible to ensure that the team is well balanced. Last season, we did not do well in our international duels, there were reasons for that...this time, we are better equipped by having a good team with great players,” he said. Moreover, Senzo hailed good working environment existing at his current club saying whenever they have a new project to pursue, they bring it on the table to have different views before letting it hit on the ground. “A lot of agendas have been successfully pushed forward courtesy of good cooperation from our different partners especially GSM something which we are all proud of. “Some people are questioning what I have personally contributed to the team, honestly, we work as a team and all these successes you see are not being achieved by one person but rather it is a team effort making them possible. “Let me say, it has been easier for me to work at Yanga because we sit down, discuss and find a better way to forge ahead. All these are fruits of having a good team behind you,” he remarked. Meanwhile, Yanga squad continue to drill ahead of their upcoming title decisive league match against Coastal Union at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. A win on the day will guarantee the Jangwani street giants league’s crown with three more games in hand as they will attain 67 points which practically no team can attain. However, facing the Tanga based outfits has never been a simple task for Yanga as such, football fraternity should expect for yet another entertaining encounter. They currently sit on sixth place with 34 points from 26 matches hence a victory could drive them into the top four of the ladder which has been their target of the unfolding campaign.