FORTY One cyclists started their Mt Kilimanjaro expedition in a voyage that will take them all the way to Kenya. The 400km six- day adventure is aimed at raising funds for Amref Health services in Africa. The fund will support Amref Health Africa’s mission of increasing sustainable health access to communities in Africa through solutions in human resources for health, health services delivery, and investments in health. Flagging off the cyclists at KIA lodge on Sunday, Kilimanjaro Regional Medical Officer  Jairy Khanga flagged off the riders at the Kia lodge in Kilimanjaro early on Sunday. Khanga commended the passion and the determination demonstrated by the first batch of the cyclists to help in improving the health of Tanzanians. “I would like to assure you that the government will continue to support this important initiative, by working closely with Amref Health Africa as we appreciate and recognise the good working relationship and synergy,” Khanga explained. Dubbed Africa Classic, the expedition which is on its seventh edition, will see another group of 67 cyclists brave the cold for the noble gesture. Amref Health Africa Acting Country Director Gaspar Jonah, on his part, said Amref Tanzania is proud of such an initiative as its impact touches the life of many especially women and children in the country. “The Africa classic has been carried out each year, but it took a two-year hiatus due to the Covid-19 Pandemic, nonetheless our participants have been patient enough to wait for this time again and come out with same energy and determination,” he said. The Chairperson of Amref Tanzania Board of Directors, Anthony Chamungwana extended appreciation to the people of The Netherlands for their constant commitment in addressing and supporting various health necessities of the African communities. “We are grateful that Amref Tanzania is among the beneficiaries of such fund and we want to assure you that, we value your efforts especially the fundraising initiatives that you are championing to support Africans through various health interventions,” he added.