ALL is set for the official opening of the 2022 RBA League at the Benjamin Mkapa Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The RBA League, which was previously to be opened last week, had to be postponed to this weekend due to various reasons. According to Haleluya Kavalambi, the Dar es Salaam basketball body’s technical and competitions director, everything is in place ahead of today's league opening ceremony at 17:00hrs. Before the official opening there will be a match between Kurasini Heat and Jogoo at 11:00 99  and later the women’s discipline battle between DB Lioness and Mchenga Queens at 13:00hrs. Later at 15:00 hours, Ukonga Warriors will lock horns with Chui and thereafter, the court will be open to stage host the opening ceremony. Kavalambi said after the opening ceremony the venue will host a re-match between the RBA defending Champions Savio and Army Basketball Club (ABC), the 2021 National Basketball League Champions at 18:00hrs. The day will be concluded with a match between the Outsiders and t JKT at 20:00hrs. Coached by Evarist Mapunda, Savio won the 2021 title with a  3-1 game victory over ABC in the best- of- five showdown. ABC made a flying league start with an outstanding 112-62 victory over Oilers who opened their campaign. Kavalambi said that the league formally started last week, but several reasons forced the official opening to be pushed to this Saturday. The RBA league that tips off from May 28th this year at Don Bosco Upanga, continued yesterday with two games at the Indoor Stadium where Police played Mgulani JKT and Ukonga Kings were in action against Vijana City Bulls. He said 15 men and seven women’s teams are engaged in the race for the 2022 top thrones. Men teams include the reigning champions Savio, ABC, Oilers, Chui, JKT, Police, Jogoo, UDSM- Outsiders, Kurasini Heat, Ukonga Kings, Mchenga, Ukonga Warriors, Mgulani JKT, and Vijana City Bulls. Women’s sides are Don Bosco Lioness, Mchenga Queens, Jeshi Stars, Vijana Queens, Kurasini Divaz, JKT Stars and Ukonga Queens. Kavalambi noted that the league will be played every Friday, Saturday and Sunday and will run until August 21st this year.