THE Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) have directed all registered companies to ensure that they submit their independent ownership details for the benefit of their entities. The order was issued recently by the BRELA Acting Director of Corporate and Business, Mr Meinrad Rweyemamu, during the launch of a two-day stakeholders’ awareness meeting. “So far, 30,000 companies have submitted their ownership details and we expect to receive information from more than 70,000 companies,” Mr Rweyemamu stated. He said the exercise of submitting ownership information started in July 2020 and is expected to be complete by end of June 2022, adding that anyone wishing to register a company must have a National Identity card. He said through the workshop, stakeholders and business people will be taught the role that BRELA plays in managing businesses. He said through the workshop, they will provide training on the issue of new ownership benefits, among others, to increase transparency and accountability in the company. “The companies are seen in the system but in reality their right owners are not there, so it is important that this information is presented to the Registrar so that the beneficiary can be identified, as it is very likely that someone owns the company, but does not want to be identified,” Rweyemamu said. He added that the information of the owners is also required to identify the decision maker of a company with the aim of reducing embezzlement and identifying the source of ownership for national security and the economy as a whole. “This concept is good and should be made known to stakeholders and company owners, as it gives the government the opportunity to make the right decisions, such as preventing embezzlement, corruption, planning on taxes as well as preventing potential terrorism. The whole world is heading there; we must also head there” Mr Rweyemamu said. He asked the stakeholders who participated in the workshop, including advocates and representatives of the owners of the company to educate other stakeholders for the national benefit. Nyamagana District Commissioner, Ms Amina Makilagi commended the stakeholders for showing up in large numbers at the seminar and asked them to continue to cooperate with BRELA to achieve the objective of business formalisation in the country.