MANUNGU Complex in Morogoro and Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita are the busiest arenas today as they host two Premier League matches today. The two venues stage the 27th round of the NBC Premier League. The league was momentarily halted to give way for Taifa Stars who were engaged in two back to back Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) matches against Niger and Algeria. At Manungu Complex, owners Mtibwa Sugar have a tense fixture as they welcome Ruvu Shooting in a seemingly entertaining match with each side looking for the maximum points. Both teams have accumulated 28 points to sit on 12th and 13th places respectively after 26 matches making the encounter to be difficult to the both sides as such; the one with better preparations will end victors. At Nyankumbu Stadium, Geita Gold have a chance to climb to the third place on the log if they succeed to defeat Dodoma Jiji as the two teams face-off in another thrilling match of the day. The hosts have picked 36 points from 26 games as such; a victory will see them leapfrogging the current third-placed Namungo who have gained 37 points in their 26 appearances. Geita Gold regained brilliance in the second round of the league and they are among the teams forecasted to end the campaign on top-three basing on the level of competency they are staging. However, they face a win-hungry team Dodoma Jiji who are trying their best to fight relegation which is knocking at their door. They have claimed 31 points from 26 encounters only seven points above the  bottom-placed Mbeya Kwanza as such; the capital city dwellers have a puzzle to solve in their remaining four games. The action continues tomorrow when KMC host Tanzania Prisons at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam while Kagera Sugar will be at their Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera to host Biashara United. However, according to the fixture released by Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), the season is set to wind up on June 29th when all 16 teams will be on the battlefield playing their 30th round.