CLERICS have lauded President Samia Suluhu Hassan for opening up the country, both diplomatically and economically. The men of the cloth who converged at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) on Friday commended the President for restoring parity and preaching reconciliation, particularly in political cycles. They equally appealed to Tanzanians to complement her efforts through hard work, as the Head of State strives to retain Tanzania’s glory. “Tanzania is now opening up and extending its wings thanks to President Samia,” opined Arusha Chief Sheikh, Shaaban Bin Jumaa. The cleric described President Samia as ‘Heavenly Sent’, noting that she was doing a commendable job in upholding peace and security in Tanzania. “This goes to show that Tanzania is even destined for other good things under her stewardship,” explained the regional Chief Sheikh. In his sentiments, Bishop Eliud Isangya showered praise on the President for enabling the tourism sector bounce back if the Royal Tour feature film was anything to go by. “We are now seeing tourists coming in droves even as Covid-19 Pandemic continues to bite,” he said. Bishop Isangya reserved further praise for the Head of State in her role of rooting for moral ethics in the society. In his remarks, Arusha Regional Commissioner John Mongella assured the men of the cloth of continued support in shaping and molding the society, eventually bringing development to Tanzanians. Mr Mongella underscored the importance of religious leaders in influencing the public. He said: We count on you as we continue to pray for our President as she steers the country. Mr Mongella appealed to the religious leaders to harbour their trust on the President, saying the country could soon become the land of ‘milk and honey’. Speaking on behalf of the elderly, former Tanzania Ambassador to Nigeria, Daniel Ole Njoolay thanked the President for taking up from where her predecessor left as far as execution of development projects is concerned. On his part, Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) representative Titho Cholobi reserved praise for the Head of State for improving the welfare of public servants in the country.