MEDIA practitioners have proposed for law amendments to enforce employment of more women in the media so that their voices could be heard more. Under their umbrella, Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), editors from various media houses suggested that the media law has to make it mandatory for each media house to ensure at least 30 per cent of their employees are women. “The media law has to be amended to make a legal requirement for all media houses to employ a minimum of 30 per cent women employees in the media companies,” TEF Chairman, Mr Deodatus Balile said during a virtual conference yesterday. Presenting some of the proposed amendments for selected provisions under the Access to Information Act, Mr Balile said the regulation shall clearly prescribe the amount of fee to be charged for accessing the information to avoid ambiguity and bring credibility and transparency. Other proposed amendments are protecting whistleblowers; the law shall protect those who divulge source of information in good faith and for public interests. The law has to be amended so that information holder is held liable for not giving the information, the changes will improve the level of accountability. When presenting the proposed amendments for the Cybercrime Act 2015, advocate and senior journalist, Mr James Marenga, said the court capable of handling offences under the Cyber Crimes Act shall be defined clearly because the current law has left such jurisdiction to handle cybercrimes cases too wide. Mr Marenga said the period of renewable licence for online media outlet validity shall be five years to allow long term investment instead of a period of three years. Other proposed amendments for cybercrime regulation are the time to deal with complaints; they proposed that the duration shall be 24 hours and not 12 hours as per international standards. Apart from proposing amendments to media law provisions, media stakeholders also said there are some positive sections such as on supervision collection and dissemination of content on online media, controlling and banning pornographies and controlling dissemination of false information. Other positive media law sections are controlling messages sent without the recipient's consent, controlling racist insults, preventing spying and hacking. On June 28, 2021 the TEF met President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the State House in Dar es Salaam and expressed necessity for  amending media-related laws to conform with international standards. The President directed the then Ministry of Information, Arts, Sports and Culture to sit with stakeholders and make necessary amendments for the laws to be predictable and transparent.