AFTER extending the unbeaten run to 28 matches, Young Africans said they will continue to take every game seriously so as to finish the season with a clean sheet. The newly crowned Premier League champs, Yanga downsized Polisi Tanzania with a 2-0 win at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday courtesy of two first half goals by Feisal Salum and Chico Ushindi. For Ushindi, it was his second goal of the campaign after scoring his opener  when his team beat Coastal Union 3-0 in their previous game at the same venue, and he now seems to have understood the lyrics of his side. Up next, Yanga are scheduled to take on Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya tomorrow in a special match that will see them being handed over their 28th league title immediately after the end of play. It will be a memorable experience for Mbeya residents to be part of the historic moment before the silverware lands in Dar es Salaam on Sunday for further celebrations as per club’s information. But, in a post-match briefing, the team’s Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi outlined that though they are champions, it is not a guarantee for them to begin underestimating their opponents. "We need to continue with our serious approach to every opponent we face on the way. The season is not yet over and we have to play in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) final which also demands us to be focused," he said. Adding, he said he made a couple of rotations on the day in order to rest some of the regular players in his squad as well as to give playing time to others. His counterpart for Polisi Tanzania, Malale Hamsini revealed that despite the defeat, their target to end the season on top four is still possible if they do well in their remaining two fixtures. "We still have a big chance to finish on top four especially if we excel in the upcoming two fixtures. Today (Wednesday), the mistake we made was to allow them to dominate the midfield battle mainly in the first half. "This gave them a big advantage to control the match and score two quick goals. The game is over now and we must concentrate on the next fixture," he said. Coming up, Polisi Tanzania will be at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi to host Geita Gold tomorrow. Geita Gold are placed fourth on the table with 42 points while Polisi