VICE-PRESIDENT, Dr Philip Mpango has underscored the need for vocational and education training to mould youth with skills and excellence in technological advancement. The VP made the remarks in his speech read on his behalf by the Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office, Union Affairs and Environment, Dr Selemani Jafo at the opening of the National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (NACTVET) exhibition. He said councils must come up with hubs that will work on innovations that would add value to the economy. Moreover, the Vice-President called upon Tanzanians to develop a habit of using locally sourced innovations and products. Dr Mpango said the government has decided to focus on vocational education and training to equip youths who form 56 per cent of the workforce with skills and competence for being employable. He said the government gears towards the upper middle income economy, thus youths are key workforce in reaching the target as they must possess the skills to undertake strategic development projects. “We need youths with skills and professionalism that will support the government in its investments agenda, who must be well versed with the national economic agenda” said Dr Mpango He mentioned projects that need  local skilled workforce as the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Julius Nyerere Hydro Power Projects (JNHPP) and the aviation industry that has seen the government revamping the national flag carrier – Air Tanzania Corporation Limited (ATCL). He counselled Tanzanians to go for locally made products and innovations as they are key for national economic development. As for Regional Commissioners, he said, they must ensure councils have hubs to develop innovations in a bid to build local capacities thus come up with small and medium scale industries. With local industries, the skilled youth can produce products for local market and export and in so doing improve their welfare and national economy as well. He insisted on patriotism as a key item for buying local products thus they are doing all at their best to instill it to the public. Dr Mpango said it is the government's plans that come 2030 at least 15 per cent of the youth can venture into the employment market. He directed the public and private entities to open up the door for youth for practical training, especially the technical and vocation for skills and knowledge needed in the market. Earlier, Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Professor Adolf Mkenda said the 154 exhibitors attended the event that among other issues intended to show skills, knowledge and innovations for national development. On its part, NACTVET promised to work more to develop youth with skills and knowledge that matches the market demand and national economic priorities.