EDUCATION stakeholders have proposed to the government to ensure every Tanzanian child has access to quality, low cost and receives a conducive and secure education. The stakeholders met for two days in the country’s capital, Dodoma, under the coordination of Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES) in collaboration with the Tanzania Teachers Union (TTU), at a meeting which came up with several recommendations to improve the sector. The stakeholders said that it was high time for the government to supervise the quality of education provided by both private and public schools including maintaining equality for all children regardless of which households they come from as well as considering those with different kinds of disabilities. Presenting the stakeholders’ views on behalf of other participants, TTU Head of Training and Education Department, Ms Stella Kiyabo said as education stakeholders, members had unanimously agreed to fight for the education profession, as well as the rights of employees in the education sector. Participants at the meeting included teachers, parents, representatives from civil society organisations, government officials and media representatives. Ms Kiyabo said stakeholders advised the government to consider professionalism in the sector. Just as it was in the public schools, stakeholders advised the government to ensure that private schools are equally employing professional teachers as directed by schools’ registration requirements. They also underscored the need to have compliance to contract as a legal requirement in private schools in order to make sure that teachers had job security. On remuneration, members advised the government to ensure that the minimum wage was considered by all schools in order to enable teachers to live a comfortable life. According to Ms Kiyabo, stakeholders also touted housing conditions for teachers, the need to ensure all schools meet all the required standards, as well as the need to improve policy and legal framework for private schools, among others.