THE government through the Higher Education for Economic Transformation (HEET) project plans to train more than 1,000 lecturers in efforts to curb shortage of the academic staff in the country. The five-year project through the World Bank support aimed at promoting higher education as a catalytic force in the new Tanzanian economy. Responding to a question by Special Seats MP Paulina Nahato (CCM), Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology Omary Kipanga  informed the  House on Thursday  that  through the  project, the government will also  improve  infrastructure  in higher learning institutions  by building  new campuses and universities  in the country. He said the project will finance training of more than 1,000 lecturers of who 625 will undergo further studies while about 400 will undergo short cause training. “We believe that through the program we can reduce the shortage of lecturers in the country,” he said. He explained that the government also has been issuing permits for recruiting new lecturers adding that the higher education institutions also have programs of financing studies of some lecturers and employ some academic staff on contractual basis. Mr Kipanga said that through the project the government will construct a new public university in Butiama - Mwalimu Nyerere University of Agriculture and Technology with capacity to enroll 5,620 students. He also said that  new campuses   will be built  through the  project  such as  University of Dar es Salaam  campus  in  Lindi  region  to accommodate 360 students,  Muhimbili  University  of Health and Allied Sciences  Mloganzaila campus with capacity of 11,000 students  and Sokoine University of Agriculture  Mizengo Pinda  campus in  Katavi with  capacity of 2,500  students. Others are Mbeya University of Science and Technology campus in Rukwa with 3,000 students’ capacity. “The   project will also facilitate construction of   new campuses in marginal satellite cities including Kagera, Tanga, Kigoma, Shinyanga, Mwanza, Simiyu, Ruvuma, Manyara and Singida,” he said. The  deputy minister  further  detailed  that  the project  is also expected to  improve  a total of 19  higher education institutions  by  constructing 34 hostels which will have capacity  of accommodating 9,042 students. A total of 130 lecture rooms will be built under the project which will accommodate (27,254), laboratories (7,850),   23 conference halls, agriculture infrastructure and 10 incubation centres. Mr Kipanga further noted that, in effort to ensure that the country produce the   required experts  in the country  the government is  currently  holding talks  to see the  possibility of collaborating with  other universities outside the country  for Tanzanian students  to benefit from  courses which are not  offered  in the country. He said that the government has increased budget for higher education students’ loans thus benefiting more students. In her   basic question, Nahato wanted to know the government plans to increase infrastructure in higher learning institutions following an increasing number of students. The Higher Education for Economic Transformation (HEET) project will help strengthen the capacity and quality of select universities and institutes to prepare faculty, researchers, and graduates, and to build a strong and flexible, high skilled workforce that can address Tanzania's development challenges.