PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has reiterated that the government will continue to value good works rendered by artistes saying they play a big role in helping the government manage social-economic development. She made the remarks in Dar es Salaam at the climax of 'The Dream Concert' which was staged to commemorate the 30 years career of Joseph Mbilinyi, one of the founders of Bongo Flava music. Popularly known as Sugu, his night gala was staged as one way to inspire the upcoming musicians. "We are all aware that Joseph has supported many artistes to ascend to the top of their music careers, something which is recommendable and I want to encourage him to continue doing that. "I acknowledge contributions made by arts sector not only in the provision of entertainment, but also it plays a pivotal role in economic development of our country because music is a source of employment," she said. Again, the President said while applauding good works done by Sugu in this sector, there are also other great musicians who worked tirelessly to ensure that Tanzania music is respectable across the world. "Some of them have passed away while others still exist as such; it is important to include them all in the history books and cherish their contributions to the growth of the artistic sector," she said. Furthermore, President Samia seized the platform to urge Tanzanians to pray for artistes who are facing health problems like Joseph Haule 'Professor Jay' whom she said is still under medical care by specialized doctors. "I believe that God will help him to get speed recovery so that he can return back to his good health and continue with his normal duties of entertaining Tanzanians as he used to do before," the president said. Concerning challenges the artists face, the President assured them that her government is ready to sit on the same table with them so that together, they can sort out the bottlenecks. She then disclosed that among the notable achievements made by her administration in fostering the growth of this sector, among others is establishing the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports which handles all affairs of artistes. Also, the President revealed that the return of Tanzania Music Awards (TMA) and Tanzania Film Awards saying the two awards will highly facilitate production of artists’ excellence works and enable them to lure many talented youths . "We want to see improvement in these two big awarding events every year so that they can reach the desired standards," President Samia said. Earlier, Sugu said to reach this far, he endured a lot of challenges but discipline, handwork, patience and determination are what forced him to keep pushing regardless what he encountered on the way. However, on the day, the stage was brightened Bongo Flava legends like Judith Wambura 'Lady Jaydee', Hamis Mwinjuma 'Mwana FA', Ambwene Yessayah among others who performed accompanied by a live Band.