SIMBA have made it clear that there is no official communication going on with the Egyptian giants Al Ahly over bringing back their former playmaker, Luis Miquissone whose playing time at his current club is limited. Simba's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally cleared the air recently in the city despite acknowledging that Miquissone is a potential player whose contributions to Simba's performance remains undisputed. "If it happens that Al Ahly want to release the player on loan, we will be happy with the news because there is nobody who does not appreciate his quality and impact he had during his tenure at our club. "But until now, there is no official communication between the two clubs over Miquissone and if it happens that he is available on the market, we will do everything to get him back," Ally said. Also, elaborating on the claims that midfielder Larry Bwalya is being hunted by the South African side, Amazulu, he pointed out that so far, they have not received a formal offer from the club. "If they come with an attractive offer, we will allow him to go because that is how football business is all over the world. We buy quality players and sell them to other clubs which show interest to get them. "The most valued business in football is buying and selling players. That is why whenever a good offer comes with mutual benefits to both the club and player, we go ahead and do business," remarked Ally. Meanwhile, Simba have intensified drills ahead of their upcoming Premier League fixture against Mbeya City at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. The team's Assistant Coach Selemani Matola will  take charge of all the upcoming league matches for Simba while waiting for the new Head Coach to be unveiled. The Msimbazi Street Reds will be seeking revenge for a 1-0 loss they suffered from Mbeya City in their first round match at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. Mbeya City striker Paul Nonga netted the winner on the day to upset Simba, hence it is a debatable subject if he will be able to score again on the day. The Msimbazi street giants remain plastered on the second place of the table with 51 points from 25 matches as they trail the current leaders Young Africans with 13 points, but the former have one game in hand. After Mbeya City, Simba will take on Mtibwa Sugar at the same venue and they have already pledged to play lungs out to win all their remaining matches despite losing a ground of the championship race.