ZANZIBAR President, Dr Hussein Mwinyi has expressed gratitude to the Chinese government for its continued support in strengthening health systems in the Isles. Dr Mwinyi (pictured) made the remark during a ceremony organized with the aim of showing gratitude to Chinese Medical team that is currently serving at Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital in Stone Town, Unguja, and Abdalla Mzee Hospital in Pemba. The Zanzibar government has been taking various steps to improve provision of medical care in isles, among others being the ongoing construction of a modern health facility in each of the eleven districts, improving accountability, and plans to introduce a Public Private Partnership (PPP) system in provision of some medical services to improve efficiency in public hospitals. “We are happy and appreciate the medical support from China, including the annual medical team from the Jiangsu province. I thank the Chinese government for the continued support in strengthening our health system,” Dr Mwinyi said during a meeting with the Chinese medical team at the State House. China has been donating medical equipment and medicines in addition to sending medical teams annually to serve in Zanzibar’s main hospitals, since 1964, as part of one of the largest public health cooperation projects with the archipelago. Zanzibar President and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council Dr. Hussein Ali Mwinyi commended the ongoing efforts taken by the Government of the People’s Republic of China to support Zanzibar in strengthening the health sector. President Dr Mwinyi made the remarks today at the State House in Zanzibar, in talks with a team of Doctors Champion from China’s Jiangsu Province who provide services at local hospitals in Zanzibar, immediately after being handed over by the team with medicines and medical supplies. During the talks, Dr Mwinyi said that for a long time the Government of the People’s Republic of China has been assisting Zanzibar in strengthening the health sector by supporting equipment, medicine and even doctors who have been coming to Zanzibar from China every year. President Mwinyi praised the 21 health personnel forming the Chinese Medical Team, for their commitment in providing health care in the country and explained that their services will significantly help to reduce the shortage of doctors, medicines and medical equipment in Zanzibar hospitals. Dr Mwinyi also expressed his happiness about the increasing use of modern technology in providing treatment services such as surgeries. At the meeting, Zanzibar Health Minister Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said that the existing cooperation between his Ministry and the Chinese medical team have helped a lot in provision of health services in isle hospitals. He said the medicines and medical equipment donated by China worth more than 300m/- Earlier, the head of the Chinese Medical Team, Dr Qu Li Shuai, explained to the President efforts being taken by the medical team to serve Zanzibaris. The minister said that out of the 21 doctors, 12 are working at Mnazi Mmoja Hospital and nine at Abdalla Mzee Hospital in Pemba. Commenting on the support, another member of the team, Mr Song Jianqing said the assistance is a continuation of strengthening the good relations and historical cooperation between Zanzibar and China. He said the Chinese government has donated medical equipment, mentioning them as ECG defibrillator, portable echocardiography machines, probes, Trocar & video (for laparoscopic), electric negative pressure suction devices, oxygen generators, multifunctional monitors, Taisier-Med surgical sutures and mesh, Medical sutures, among others. Mr Song explained that the medical team, which arrived in Zanzibar in September last year, has been working well, and “We have treated more than 50,000 people and conduct more than 6,000 surgeries at the Mnazi Mmoja, Abdalla Mzee and Kivunge hospitals.