VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango has said Tanzania is committed to strengthening the existing diplomatic ties with Sweden for the greater interest of both sides. He equally commended Sweden for its continued efforts to support Tanzania’s development in various sectors that include education, trade and human rights. Dr Mpango expressed the government commitment on Friday during his meeting with the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, during their talks held in Stockholm, Sweden. The Vice-President was attending a two-day Stockholm+50’ conference, an international meeting convened by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). “The two countries have been enjoying stronger ties for a long time, the government of Tanzania under President Samia Suluhu Hassan is looking forward to strengthening the existing bond,” said Dr Mpango. He also suggested the possibility for Sweden to support in training cardiac specialists in Tanzania, as well as the need to restore the cooperation on higher learning education. “The move will enable Tanzania to have a good number of experts on higher learning education for national development,” he said. Dr Mpango also informed the Swedish minister on the efforts that the government of Tanzania is taking to improve   business and investment environment. Tanzania is also working on various areas such as improvement in the industrial sector, environmental conservation, and agriculture as well as investing heavily on provision of education and health services. Dr Mpango disclosed that Tanzania has taken various initiatives to tackle environmental degradation including protecting its natural forests as well as embarking on national tree planting campaigns. The country has also preserved 307,800 square kilometers, which is equivalent to 32.5 per cent of the entire area earmarked for national parks and forests. For her part, Ms Linde commended the government of Tanzania for various efforts being taken including promoting human rights, press freedom and democracy. She also commended the government for  allowing teenage mothers to continue with their studies after giving birth, saying the move provides equal rights to education for Tanzanian girls. The Swedish minister was also optimistic that the Tanzania-Sweden   business cooperation will be improved due to the presence of supporting   infrastructure including Rapid Bus Transit in Dar es Salaam and the   construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). Stockholm+50 is collaborative and multi-stakeholder in nature, open to all participants, who are invited to share experiences and initiatives to protect the planet and contribute to sustainable and inclusive development, one of them being a sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting comprises an opening segment, four plenary meetings, three leadership dialogues, and a closing segment.  It is attended by heads of state and governments from various nations as well as environmental stakeholders. It commemorates the 50th anniversary since the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment made environment a pressing global issue for the first time. Some 122 countries attended, and participants adopted a series of principles on the environment, including the Stockholm Declaration and Action Plan for the Human Environment. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) was created as a result of the conference.