VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Phillip Mpango has expressed Tanzania’s commitment in implementing initiatives meant to achieve Commonwealth goals. Dr Mpango said some of the continued initiatives being implemented are focused on fighting Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs). He, however, called for the continued cooperation among various stakeholders in investing in accessibility to vaccines, health testing and treatment and finding solutions to chronic diseases in order to attain the 2023 Commonwealth goals. In 2018, Commonwealth countries set a target to reach zero Malaria among member states by the year 2023. Dr Mpango made the statement during the Summit on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) held on Thursday in Kigali, Rwanda alongside the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). He said the diseases are among major challenges facing Tanzanians, and that the government has been taking all measures address problems. “In Tanzania, around 29 million people need to receive treatment of at least one disease in a list of NTDs,” said Dr Mpango. Dr Mpango also informed delegates that Tanzania is now implementing a five-year strategic plan of fighting NTDs, a programme that started in 2021 and will be concluded in 2026. “The plan aims at maintaining the achievements that were recorded in fighting the diseases as well as strengthening the monitoring of the NTDs,” he briefed the delegates. He said efforts to fight Malaria in Tanzania has paid off since already the spreading of the disease in Zanzibar and other five regions in mainland is now below one per cent. “The aim is to have zero Malaria in the mentioned areas by the year 2025,” added the Vice-President who was representing President Samia Suluhu Hassan in the Summit. The Summit was attended by the different heads of state and various international organisations. Among the delegates included Prince Charles of Wales and President Paul Kagame of Rwanda. Other attendees included President Mokgweetsi Masisi of Botswana, Co-Chairperson of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Ms Melinda Gates and other stakeholders. CHOGM was due to take place in June 2020 but was postponed twice due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Leaders of Commonwealth countries meet every two years for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM), hosted by different member countries on a rotating basis. Since 1971, a total of 24 meetings have been held, with the most recent being in the UK in 2018. Commonwealth countries are diverse: they are among the world’s biggest, smallest, richest and poorest countries. Together they work to pursue common goals and values. Small states are especially vulnerable to issues such as climate change and developmental challenges. But all Commonwealth members have an equal say regardless of size or wealth.