ZANZIBAR government is currently holding talks with three different foreign companies to establish state-of-the-art processing factories which will use unwanted brown and green algae or seaweed residues as raw materials. Blue Economy and Fisheries Minister Captain Hamad Bakar revealed that here during a meeting with marine resources stakeholders aimed at seeking their views that would help the government when making decision to approve or not the multimillion projects. The minister said that out of many applications to invest in the marine projects which are being evaluated the three from ‘Tanz Pro Seaweed Development’ registered by investors from Seychelles, Nutri San Limited from UK and KZO Sea Farm from USA have requested for permits to start production right away. The stakeholders including marine scientists from the University of Dar es Salaam, research institutes, entrepreneur institutions and women empowerment groups had the views that the foreign companies should be allowed to invest but they should first conduct the environmental impact assessment, feasibility study, and other requisite groundwork. According to Capt Bakar, the ‘Tanz Pro Seaweed Development Company which already operates similar processing plant in Seychelles, is eagerly waiting to be allowed to establish a factory that produces liquid fertilizer from sargassum residues (also known as brown seaweed). With advanced science and new technology, the company is ready to manage and make better use of sargassum by turning it into agricultural organic fertilizer currently on high demand, he said. “This new seaweed harvesting business will involve collecting washed-up seaweed, and processing it to extract the organic matter in liquid form,” he said, adding that seaweed will be collected from the inner islands. Seaweeds are aquatic plants that live attached to rock or other hard substance in coastal areas, and the most common type found in Zanzibar are spinosum and cottonii. But also the sargassum (brown algae) and Alfa (green seaweed are found as wastes in Zanzibar in the sea or at the beaches along with the sea grass. Both brown and green are seasonal, normally on a largescale during some period of the year, and marine scientists say that the algae are torn from the seabed and end up in piles on the beach, which pose as a nuisance for people, especially beach visitors. Mr Bakar said another company Nutri-San Limited of the United Kingdom wants a permit to start production from the Alfa (green seaweed) as raw material to be collected and later grown. Nutri-San Limited is an innovative bio-technology company specialized in safe, sustainable, solutions for the animal feed and livestock farming industries. He said that the KZO Sea Farm from USA has applied to establish Mariculture Parks in the sea to produce and process a variety of sustainable, low-trophic products. The cultivation of the marine ‘crops’ will benefit from economies of scale by sharing professional management, security and infrastructure. The Blue Economy officer informed the stakeholders that KZO Sea Farms’ team of engineers and consultants has designed a Submersible Seaplant Structure (SSS) constructed with High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pipes providing four transformative benefits for seaweed Mari-culture, “The investors are also eagerly waiting for permission."