THE National Institute of Transport (NIT) has urged companies and various organizations in the country to provide volunteering opportunities to local graduates, so as to get expertise and experience in their areas of study. Speaking on behalf of the NIT Deputy Rector (Academics, Research and Consultancy) during the graduate exit programme held at the institute’s main campus in Dar es Salaam, Engineer Omari Mashi said: “Fresh graduates need chances to get experience as they move to cope with employment challenges after graduation. With this, I urge companies and different organisations countrywide to help graduates get volunteering opportunities.” Eng Mashi has further said that the current job market is more competitive, saying the graduates fresh from college must be more creative and dedicated. He also warned the graduates to be aware of the scammers who use fake employment opportunities to steal money from graduates and students for the reason of giving them well-paying jobs. “You must be more careful with these scammers; they are pretending to be employers calling you for the well-paying jobs but at the end of the day, they asked for money to give you the opportunity, when you hear the issue of giving money you must understand that it is a scam,” he said. He also called for the good relations between the academic institutions and companies, saying the NIT has shown a good reputation with firms, saying the NIT students are not suffering in the job market. “NIT has a good reputation with companies, this situation has made the graduates from our Institute receive a fair challenge when seeking employment opportunities,” he said. On his part, NIT Dean of Students, Mr Meshack Kimaro has called the graduates to use the education that they obtained as an instrumental in fostering growth, reducing poverty and boosting shared prosperity as well as benefiting not just the individual, but the entire community. “If you want to live in a better world, and I am sure you do, I urge you to become involved in shaping it,” he said, adding: “Develop good deeds and be good citizens who will be respected and live like educated people with good values and consider that life goes on." Speaking at the sideline of the event, NIT’s Director of Research Publication and Postgraduate Studies, Dr Eva Luwavi has encouraged students to continue with their post-graduate studies, saying that the level of education they received is not sufficient. “Never stop developing yourself academically after completing your education here, the level of education you have received is not sufficient at all,” she said. Some of the students who spoke to this paper pledge to use the knowledge they are receiving in building the nation and solving challenges that are facing communities. However, over 1000 students are expecting to graduate from the National Institute of Transport. Neema Vicent, a student who expects to complete her bachelor’s degree, applauded the NIT’s administration's decision of organizing such an event, saying that it gave them a glimpse into the life outside the college. Japhet Makame, an upcoming graduate said that the education that they have received has prepared them to face life outside the college.