EARLY diagnosis and treatment of Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) has been cited as a key measure in bringing down number of cases in the country. This is why the government in collaboration with various stakeholders developed a special programme to diagnose the Sickle Cell genes and early interventions, according to Tanzania Sickle cell Warriors Organisation (TASIWA) Chairman, Ms Prisilla Chassama. She made the statement on Monday this week during commemoration of the World Sickle Cell Day held at the Bugando Regional Referral Hospital grounds in Mwanza city. Statistics of the World Health Organisation (WHO) show that approximately 11,000 children in Tanzania are born with Sickle cell annually. “Tanzania is the fourth country in the world with sickle cell patients while the first is Nigeria followed by India and Congo. So far Tanzania has about 200,000 patients,” Ms Chassama said. She noted that Sickle Cell contributes to 6.7 per cent of all deaths of children under the age of five which is equivalent to 7 out of 100 live births. Statistics indicate that Lake Zone regions have highest number of babies with Sickle Cell comparing to other parts of the country whereby out of every 100 babies, 14 are diagnosed with sickle cell.  She said sickle cell is caused by heredity from both parents and statistics show that 15-20 per cent of Tanzanians have genetic disease.  She called for sustainable strategies for provision of public education and campaigns for testing young people in schools so that they can identify themselves as sickle cell patients and make decisions that will help reduce the number of children born with the disease. The Mwanza Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Ms Ngusa Samike, requested the Bugando Referral Hospital and TASIWA to start providing education on Sickle Cell from the district level and start providing education on SCD. He urged Bugando Hospital to continue promoting various campaigns to encourage the public to go for testing Sickle cell. He said the government has increased access to medical services including the use of drugs such as Hydroxyurea where the drug reduces side effects and improves the lives of people living with Sickle Cell disease.