HIP hop artistes from all over the world will be on stage Alliance Française in the city to brighten the three-day music gala backed by the French Embassy to Tanzania. Christened Hip Hop Asili, the three-day music festival will be attended by over 1,500 people, according to a statement release yesterday by France Ambassador to Tanzania, Nabil Hajlaoui. Recalling the last year’s Africa-France Summit held in Montpellier, France with a new format, actors and themes to address challenges on the relationship between Africa and France, he said the France President Emmanuel Macron was for stakeholders to facilitate and meet the expectations of young people and create a forum for them to realize a future-focused dialogue. Elaborating, he said the festival is supported by his embassy, Alliance Française Dar es Salaam, and the US Embassy. Adding he said:“The three-day event is designed to celebrate the Hip Hop Culture in East Africa that includes the art of breakdancing, emceeing, graffiti, Deejaying, Beat Boxing and skate boarding.  “This festival is a continuation of the actions carried out by some 30 African and French Hip Hop operators last October during the New Africa-France Summit (NSAF), which led to the development of a Hip Hop cooperation strategy for the African continent for the period from 2022 to 2024 years Artists from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Congo, Ghana, Mayotte, France and United States of America will join other 36 upcoming artists who were selected during the Hip Hop Asili regional competitions that involved six Mwanza, Arusha, Mbeya, Dodoma, Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar regions.” Breaking down the activities, Friday 24th will see Hip Hop Asili Festival hosting an East Africa Break Dance Competition to get a Tanzania champion, who will go to the "Battle of the Year 2022" in Tokyo - Japan. On Saturday 25th, the day will be decorated by the live performances of Octopizzo (Kenya), Tina Mweni (Kenya/Denmark), Rise up Band (Tanzania/France), Jay Moe (Tanzania), The Mc 255 (Tanzania), Mic Crenshaw (US), Lord Eyes (Tanzania) and many others. Also will be extreme live graffiti. The days’ events will be facilitated by Bboy Lilou from France who is breakdance’s world champion, Deejay PH from France, Mejah Mbuya from Tanzania, Mama C (Tanzania/US) and others. The festival attaches great importance to the genre aspect and there will be a performance of a group of female rappers established by the "Her Hip Hop" project through the Franco-German Fund financed by the Institut Français in collaboration with Goethe Insitut. In his further address, he noted that the Embassy of France in Tanzania acknowledges the presences of local and international partners such as Precision Air (Tanzania), Wachata (Tanzania), Okoa Mtaa Foundation (Tanzania), Muda Africa (Tanzania), Battle of the year East Africa, Street Off (France) Kigali Break dance (Rwanda), Embassies of France in Kenya, Ghana, Uganda and Ghana. Casik Project (Kenya), Uganda breakdance Project (Uganda), WePresent (France), Attitude (France) and others.