It is a dream come true for a young girl to get education in a community where women are less privileged. In our community, girl children are not given education opportunities in the same way as boys. Child marriages and pregnancies plus Female Genital Mutilation(FGM) are some of the many challenges girls have to grapple with in their search for a better life. For many years, Grumeti Fund has been empowering secondary school girls in communities bordering conservation areas to understand the purpose of life. May 28 this year was a great day for girls at Natta and Makundusi secondary schools. Over 600 girls were given education on Gender Based Violence (GBV) and how to face and overcome the challenges coming with it. While boys would be carrying on with their studies anywhere in Tanzania, mature girls would however not because of hygiene- related issues during menstruation. Their mothers are mere small holder farmers who cannot afford to buy them sanitary towels. It is a huge burden mothers have to shoulder. Though the world is changing, it is still a taboo in some African families for a child to discuss menstrual health issues with her parents . The Grumeti Fund girls’ empowerment sessions bring together stakeholders and counsellors, especially successful women professionals to share their experiences and professionalism to demonstrate to the young girls how they can be able to determine their own choices. On May 28 we were joined by Serengeti District Council Education Officer, Ms Palitha Cleophase as our guest of honour. Restudah Murutta from Kisarena College of Health Sciences and Sijali Nyambuche from Gender Desk of the Police Force were guest speakers. They made it a wonderful day for the girls. Various studies show that more than 20 per cent of women aged between 19 and 49 years have experienced Gender Based Violence (GBV) in 2021and about 75 per cent of children below the age of 18 have experienced child abuse done by their relatives. Also, on a scale of 1-10, three girls miss lessons due to their menstruation cycle. The society cannot therefore keep quiet when it comes to the issue of girls’ empowerment because we strongly believe that empowering a girl means empowering the whole community. Grumeti Fund Community Outreach Program manager, Frida Mollel inspired the girls by sharing her secret of success as a woman leader and mother. She officially opened the event at Natta Secondary School by thanking everyone who was in attendance, especially the girls, most of them under 20 years of age. “Everything is possible if you believe in what you are doing. You are supposed to aim at it, have goals and struggle relentlessly,’’ she said. Ms Mollel also reminded the girls that the times of depending on men were over, and they were supposed to read hard so they may take care of their families as future mothers and leaders. | Restudah Murutta who is a lecturer at Kisare College of Health Sciences in Serengeti gave a lecture on Menstrual Health and other issues that concern women’s health. The girls participated fully in the session and were able to seek clarifications and asked questions in order to understand the topics. Sijali Nyambu spoke on various issues of GBV, which included physical, psychological and economic violence. She also reminded the girls that in Tanzania, the law prohibits sexual relationships for anyone below the age of 18. “As soon as you or any member of your family is subjected to sexual violence, you are supposed to report it to any police station immediately,” she said and gave them a police number they may call to report such incidents. Before distributing reusable sanitary towels which can last for more than a year to the 600 girls, Ms Cleophase thanked Grumeti Fund for its sustainable contribution to ensure girls in Serengeti District attend school with no obstacles. “We appreciate and value all that Grumeti Fund has been doing over the years. It might have not been easy for Grumeti to enable all of us meet here today,” said the District Education Officer. She said that girls can do better and they deserve the best, saying Grumeti has come a long way to make them stand where they are and their vision is to go even further. The Community Outreach Programme initially started by empowering girls only. However, they have introduced another method of girls’ empowerment through boys. The boys are men and the girls’ brothers who will one day become fathers. They have a chance to improve the wellbeing of their communities that depend on both men and women, by supporting the girls now and understanding their contribution in their lives. Grumeti Fund is a non-profit organization that supports conservation and community development activities in Western Serengeti.