THE Ministry of Arts, Culture and Sports said the government has allocated 10bn/-to enable Tanzania meet the criteria for staging global and regional level competitions. The amount is solely for renovation of stadiums. T he docket Minister Mohamed Mchengerwa revealed his ministerial plans on Monday during the parliament session in Dodoma, He emphasized that they will begin with seven stadiums; namely Jamhuri in Dodoma, Sheikh Amri Abeid in Arusha, Sokoine in Mbeya, CCM Kirumba in Mwanza, Mkwakwani in Tanga, Uhuru and Benjamin Mkapa arenas in Dar es Salaam. However, other renovation includes installing artificial grass and platforms in Kigoma, Rukwa, Mtwara, Iringa, Tabora and Shinyanga regions and that will come after consultation with the owners of the plots. “This strategy will enable President Samia Suluhu Hassan of Tanzania to achieve a major Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) football tournament, which Tanzania has already proposed for the year 2027,” said Minister Mchengerwa. The Ministry also plans to construct gymnasiums, recreational and leisure centres, and sports and arts arenas will cost 7.16bn/-in the fiscal year. Other projects include the construction of the Dar es Salaam Sports Complex 1,5bn/-, the construction and improvement of sports infrastructure at 56 Sports Academy 2bn/- and the construction of the Malya Sports Development College will cost 1.3bn/-. Minister Mchengerwa further listed 26 Regions where 56 schools were chosen as sports schools. These regions include Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Geita, Iringa, Kagera, Katavi Kilimanjaro, Kigoma, Lindi, Manyara. Mara, Mbeya, Mwanza, Morogoro, Mtwara, Njombe, Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma, Shinyanga, Singida, Simiyu, Songwe, Tabora and Tanga. Deputy Minister Pauline Gekul added: Our Ministry has decided to allocated regions based on their talents. In terms of athletics, we have landed in no less than five regions: Manyara, Arusha, Singida, Mara and Mbeya. We assure the parliament that we will develop talents from the grass-root level to the highest level. Minister Mchengerwa mentioned other projects to implement, including the construction of the Dodoma Sports complex, which will cost 100m/-. He also mentioned the Ministry allocated 2.4bn/- for the Cultural and Arts fund. Also, the Minister revealed the project for the renovation of Bagamoyo College of Arts and Culture allocated 550m/-, strengthening the Kiswahili National Council (BAKITA) 300m/- as well as supporting the African Heritage Liberation Program, which has allocated an amount of 515m/-. Deputy Minister Pauline Gekul added a commitment to building the Malya Sports Development College to promote and develop talent. They will continue with the improvement of the college hospitality by the construction of a student hostel. “We have invested in Malya Collège to ensure that courses are offered but also students who go there have better hospitality for them so that they can settle down, get training. We are working in partnership with the Ministry of Education on the curriculum.” She added that investment in sports professionals is essential. She stressed that the Ministry had seen it as a fundamental thing because if they develop talent from the grassroots, the sector shall have enough sports professionals to develop young skills in the country. The Ministry for Culture, Artists and Sports has requested the Parliament to approve a 35.42bn/- budget for the 2022/2023 fiscal year. The Minister also highlighted that 8.201bn/- are allocated to pay salaries. Other charges are allocated with 11.392bn/- and 15.831bn/- for development expenditure.