PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the number of Ngorongoro residents who are registering for voluntarily migrating to their new land at Msomera village in Handeni District, Tanga region is increasing day by day. The government has embarked on an exercise of relocating the villagers from Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) in Arusha region to Msomera village voluntarily. “The government is walking the talk by facilitating this movement; we shall continue to ensure the exercise is carried out smoothly as per the instructions of President Samia Suluhu Hassan,” the PM made the remarks while at Msomera village where he visited to assess the situation. Mr Majaliwa toured the village to inspect progress that has been attained so far in putting in place social services to accommodate new residents who vacated the NCA. “As you were promised, here everyone is getting a house with a title deed. The government has constructed a primary and secondary school while undertaking other projects including water and road infrastructure,” he said, adding the government is also constructing a health centre. He also commended constructors for   timely completion of the 130 houses, saying the government has set a target of building 500 houses in the area. For his part, Deputy Minister of State, President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, David Silinde said the government has built a new primary school while renovating the old one. “We are also constructing a health centre as already the money has been issued,” he explained. Phase two of voluntary migration of people from Ngorongoro to Msomera started on 20th June. A total of 27 households with 127 people and 488 cattle have been lined up for the migration. One household will relocate to Karatu District, Manyara region. Some of the new residents of Msomera village have commended the government for its continued initiatives to improve social services in the area. Speaking on behalf of others, one of the residents, Mr Richard Ole Mokoro said the construction of infrastructure and other supportive service facilities in the village is a privilege that they were not expecting to receive. “The compensation that we have received and construction of the infrastructure is a clear and sufficient evidence of the caring that the government has on us,” he said. They also asked President Samia Suluhu Hassan to consider visiting them so that they could thank her for the resettlement efforts that the government   deliberately made. According to him, the government has also made available water services in their village by putting in place water reservoirs in every after 400 meters. “Right now there are water bowsers that are supplying clean and safe water here, a service that was not available in the past,” he hinted. He said while in Ngorongoro there was no access to water service for their cattle, a situation which was contrary to the experience they were going through at Msomera Village. “We thank President Samia for providing us with this opportunity, right now we are free to do anything contrary to the life we were living in Ngorongoro,” he explained. According to him, Msomera residents were optimistic that their village would   record huge development based on the pace at which the projects were being undertaken. The relocation is being done in efforts to protect national heritage, water sources, and avoid the effects of proximity to wild animals and people. According to the minister for Natural Resources and Tourism Dr Pindi Chana, other reasons for the relocation include giving people the freedom to engage in various economic activities including agriculture without restrictions because they could not do such activities in protected areas like Ngorongoro Conservation Area. 