OVER 430 residents of Mloganzila in Kwembe Ward of Ubungo District in Dar es Salaam Region are seeking government intervention after their houses were demolished in 2016 in a land dispute. A section of residents who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ said they were sailing through difficult conditions since then when their status changed from being landlords to tenants. Mr Ibrahim Mbegu who claimed to be among the bona-fide owners of the plots at the area near Muhimbili Mloganzila Hospital, in the outskirt of the city, said on April 30th, 2016, the residents left shocked when they heard that they were supposed to vacate after a person known as Henry Kashangaki had won a case. “We were perplexed because we were given only 15 minutes to quit. We were told that Henry Kashangaki had a case against 11 people over the ownership of the land,” he said and added that none of them were respondents. He called President Samia Suluhu Hassan to intervene in the matter to help them as well as unearthing germs behind the saga. He said the conflict has also affected residents who are living in some parts of Kisarawe District. Hadija Mloka, a mother of three said she had been struggling to make ends meet before 2012 when one of her family members built a house in Kibamba for her and grandchildren to live in. “March 4, in the same year, I shifted to my new residence with my grandchildren. I stayed there for a few days before a bulldozer drove to demolish our homes. I am deprived now...I live in a single room with my daughter and grandchildren,” the mother said. Grace Amir told this paper that before she bought a plot at the area in 2012, she consulted a local government office and after purchasing the property at the area, she paid 10 per cent of total deal reached as a levy. According to her, it was no sooner as May 2, 2012 when her property was demolished after the said Kashangaki had won the case. The residents, who recently gathered at Kibamba, admitted to have had information that Mr Kashangaki had won a case but insisted that they were not part of respondents. Mloganzila local government Chairperson Ahmed Nyalalu confirmed that there is a land dispute at his locality but insisted that Mr Kashangaki was given a go ahead of demolishing houses belonging to only 11 respondents but went on demolishing homes of over 400 people. He claimed the person who had an agreement with Kashangaki is the one who sold the plot to wananchi who do not recognise the latter. On his part, Mr Kashangaki stated that the case had already been closed in the courts of law and he had defeated the respondents twice. Speaking over the telephone, he said that the court ordered those who were unlawfully occupying the plot, which were under the title deed of his name to vacate. “After demolition, they decided to appeal at the High Court and this time the number was 139 people and only six of them appeared to testify...the court quashed their evidence. Again, I won,” he stated. In the District Land and Housing Tribunal for Kinondoni District, land application No. 328 of 2009 by Henry Kashangaki versus Dominic Mchape, Pambano Mohamed and nine other respondents, it was ruled that the applicant holds a certificate of title on a piece of land known as Farm No 221 Kibamba in Kinondoni District (now Ubungo District) in the City of Dar es Salaam.