Young Africans were officially crowned the 2021/22 season champions after their 1-1 draw with Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya on Saturday evening. The new champions won their 28th league throne in the season that the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) described the best organised.p Seaking in Mbeya before the throne’s handover, the board’s Chief Executive Officer Almas Kassongo said Tanzania staged the best league season as the board hopes to have a superior one in 2022/23 season. TPLB described the 2021/22 season as a very successful one saying they have achieved 95 per cent of initial plans they aligned beforehand. Kasongo disclosed this in Dar es Salaam and Mbeya as he scrutinised the NBC Premier League, Championship and First League which fall under the umbrella of the board. "I can say we have succeeded a lot to put everything in place as initially planned. As such, almost 95 per cent of what we planned to achieve in all the three leagues we run have been implemented successfully. "Of course, we cannot run away from challenges which are always there for us to face and see how best we can tackle them to move forward. The most important thing is to achieve the set up goals," he said. In terms of fixtures, Kasongo pointed out that to a large extent, they have quenched people's demands of not entertaining 'games at hand' a thing he said they have succeeded to achieve. "People were complaining a lot about games in hand but now, you can see that we are in the 29th round of the league with each team on the log playing the same number of matches. "In most cases, if you positively consider media deliberations, you come up with a long lasting solution and as a board; we heard the way people were reacting about the previous fixtures which saw teams having four to five games in hand which practically is not healthy. "We sat with our colleagues from Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to find the way forward on eradicating the problem for good and we are happy that a remedy was found which is being applicable at the moment," the CEO said. He, however, added that not all the challenges of fixtures have been addressed but rather, they will continue to improve this area to ensure that it becomes fully successful as people want. "Fixture is the league...it is the planning tool of the clubs, leaders, coaches and even to players themselves that is why we value it a lot and it pushes us to have either a friendly or unfriendly contest," he said. Football pundits already commended TPLB for coming up with what they called 'friendly fixture' saying clubs were able to travel conveniently to fulfill their assignments. they will be searching to maintain their unbeaten status in post Pablo Franco era as they have won all three games played at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium hence an opportunity to stretch further their positive performance. Their latest game was a convincing 2-0 triumph over Mtibwa Sugar courtesy of Pape Sakho and Peter Banda first half goals which gave them deserved three points on the day.    Under the tutelage of caretaker coach Selemani Matola, the Reds are leaving no stone unturned as they want to finish the campaign on a gas pedal without dropping any essential points on the way.  Matola has since become the driving force for Simba's recent performance as morale has been restored in the team with each player looking ready to support his side stamp success.  Simba's last game of the campaign will be at Majimaji Stadium in Songea against Mbeya Kwanza as the latter seem to have already faced the exit door.  At Manungu Complex, Mtibwa Sugar will be eager to get back to winning ways after losing their past game 2-0 to Simba hence a nice opportunity to utilise well their home venue.    Coincidentally, they interface an injured side which also lost their past game 1-0 to Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium as such, the 90 minutes of play will seemingly be tense to both teams and a team which has had enough preparations will grab a victory. For the Lindi-based side, they are searching for a chance to finish the season on top four category which can earn them an opportunity to play in CAF Interclub games next term.