A NEW report on the status of illicit drugs in Tanzania for 2021 shows that drug dealers have added to the market a new type of drug, Methamphetamine as cultivation and abuse of marijuana and khat remains a serious challenge in the country. The report was tabled in the august House on Friday by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliament and Coordination), George Simbachawene. Speaking at a media briefing after tabling the report in parliament, Mr Simbachawene said however that Tanzania had made tremendous strides in the fight against illicit drugs. Apart from the successes in curbing importation of industrial illicit drugs, particularly heroin, Mr Simbachawene said the country was still facing a challenge of fighting locally grown drugs— marijuana and khat—which are cultivated in many parts of the country. The minister who was flanked by Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) Commissioner General, Gerald Kusaya said that in 2021, about 22.74 tonnes of marijuana were seized, which is an increment of 72 per cent compared to 13.23 tonnes which  were seized during the corresponding period in 2020. The seizure, according to him, saw 9,484 suspects arrested in various parts of the country. The minister further said. The minister added that during 2021, about 1.13 tonnes of heroin were seized, the highest amount to have been seized in the country since independence. “This amount is three times more than the amount which
was seized during the corresponding period in 2020. He added, about 811.30 grammes of cocaine were also seized. According to Mr Simbachawene, for the first time in the history of the fight against illicit drugs the government seized a large consignment of 430.77 kilogrammes of the new type of imported drugs—Methamphetamine involving nine Iranian nationals. Apart from fighting importation, cultivation and use of illicit drugs, the minister said the government was investing in rehabilitation of drug addicts. According to him, as of December 2021, there were 905,902 drug addicts receiving free rehabilitation services at different districts and regional hospitals countrywide. As marijuana remains a challenge in the country, the DCEA Commissioner General told journalists that although some countries have already legalised marijuana, the Tanzanian government does not have any plans whatsoever to legalise cultivation of marijuana in the country. Mr Kusaya said the government will continue enhancing enforcement of laws and regulations to further control importation and use of abusive drugs.