PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has sent a message of condolences to Iringa Regional Commissioner, Queen Sendiga following the death of 19 people who perished in a grisly road accident on Friday in the region. The accident occurred at Mufindi District in the region causing instant death to 14 men, four women and one girl child. A statement issued on Friday by the Directorate of Presidential Communication Unit said that President Samia has also consoled families and relatives of the diseased. "I convey my condolences to the relatives of the deceased ... I join their families in mourning them, especially at this difficult moment," President Samia said in a statement. The Head of State directed all respective authorities in charge of road safety to continue educating drivers and other road users on the importance of observing traffic rules and regulations. According to Iringa Regional Police Commander, ACP Allan Bukumbi, the accident involved a Coaster which was heading to Iringa from Dar es Salaam which crashed into a parked lorry which had technical faults. "While the wounded were being rescued, another lorry lost control and hit the coaster again," the RPC said. He said the police were still investigating the accident to establish its cause. Meanwhile, Doctor in charge at Mufindi Hospital, Dr Victor Msafiri confirmed to have received 19 bodies and eight wounded people. He said that the wounded were admitted at the hospital and their conditions were improving. Dr Msafiri noted that four bodies have been identified by relatives and the exercise was proceeding to identify the remaining bodies. President Samia had already issued key directives to intensify measures in ensuring the country’s roads are safe, stressing on making the issue a national agenda. The measures include the need for a scientifically based road safety management research, use of social media to raise awareness among the youth and employing modern systems in vehicle inspection, among others. The Head of State issued the directives at the end of last year while launching the Road Safety Week, adding that it was devastating to see the lives of people, especially the youth being claimed in road crashes. Although the government has invested much in the country’s road infrastructure, the youth are the main victims of these crashes despite a recorded slowdown in the number of accidents. “The statistics which have been presented here do not paint a good picture for our country… over 90 per cent of the accidents are as a result of human errors, speeding, reckless driving, overtaking and not wearing helmets or seat belts,” said President Samia. She added “Using scrap or worn out vehicles contributes to 3.2 per cent of all accidents and bad weather such as fog, dust, smoke and slippery roads (1.3 per cent). Similarly, the statistics have shown that motorcycle riders famously known as ‘bodaboda’ are the largest group who are responsible for the accidents. “In five years’ time, a total of 2,220 motorcycle riders have lost their lives and 4,202 others injured due to road crashes. On average, the country has lost 445 youths each year and hospitalised 850 patients due to bodaboda accidents.” As such, the President directed the police countrywide to place more emphasis on educating the bodabodas, citing that the group should not remain behind on awareness sessions to be enlightened on the matter.