THOUSANDS of Tanzanians turned up at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to taste the World Cup feeling and take photos with the golden trophy prior to the end of its two-day stay yesterday. Coca-Cola Company in partnership with FIFA, facilitated the World Cup trophy tour of Tanzania, bringing the silverware for the fourth time on Tanzania soil and this time, people’s turnout was overwhelmingly good. The event was coloured by performances from various artistes of Bongo Flava and Singeli artistes and the attendees also had a chance to watch The Loyal Tour Film which focuses on advertising the country globally. Government has since hailed Coca-Cola Company for facilitating the tour saying it will be a catalyst to improve on the available sports infrastructures in order to have an opportunity of bidding to host 2027 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. This was said by Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Pauline Gekul at a dinner gala d to celebrate successfully hosting the World Cup Trophy Tour and it was attended by over 300 people. She said the tour will help the government a lot to increase its efforts in scaling up sports development including making sure that sports infrastructure of the global status are constructed. "This rare opportunity to be selected among four countries which did not qualify for the Qatar finals to host the World Cup trophy tour is a big honour and we need to cherish it with actions," she said. On her part, Coca-Cola Company Marketing Senior Director Nelly Wainaina thanked Tanzania and Kenya for excelling in hosting the tour saying it should be used to enhance the growth of the beautiful game of football. Coca-Cola in partnership with FIFA picked Juliano Haus Belletti as the FIFA World Cup trophy tour ambassador who accompanied the trophy to all the countries lined up to host it. Juliano is the current Assistant Manager for Cruzeiro, a Brazilian sports club based in Belo Horizonte. He has played for Villareal, Barcelona and Chelsea, the English club he mostly played as a defender between 2002 and 2010 and won various honours during his career with the club. He began his football career in Campeonato Brasileiro Série A with Cruzeiro, São Paulo and Atlético Mineiro, being awarded the Silver Ball by Placar for his performances on loan during the 1999 season. He is credited for his only goal for Barcelona that won them the UEFA Champions League in 2006 after which he then returned to Brazil, winning the national league with Fluminense in 2010. He earned 23 caps for Brazil from 2001 to 2005, scoring once. He was part of the team that won the 2002 FIFA World Cup and competed at the 2001 and Copa América and 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup.