THE government has expressed its commitment to continue supporting the national women's cricket and was impressed with their outstanding performance in global competitions. The Director of Sports in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuph Singo expressed the government's commitment during a reception to honour the National Women Cricket team for clinching the Kwibuka T-20 Cup in Kigali, Rwanda recently. The brave Tanzanian Ladies played brilliantly to claim this year's Kwibuka Women T-20 Cricket throne after defeating Kenya by 44 runs in the play-off final at OPRC oval in Kigali, Rwanda. The tournament involved eight countries Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Botswana, Nigeria, Brazil and Germany. The ladies stamped the 100 per cent performance after playing eight games and winning all. During the reception, Singo attributed the success  to the increased investment made by the Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) and the long-term government plans through cricket development programmes in schools. The programmes enabled the coach to build a strong squad that proudly hoisted high the country's flag. "The government has supported them all along. There have been good plans for this game to be taught in schools, and we have taught children for a very long time in schools. We have been supporting TCA programmes in schools to get good players up front. Cricket has become very popular in our community, and even when you look at the squad, it has players from different regions." What impressed him most was the age of those players who won the title; most squad members are young, between the ages of 16 and 24. Thus, reflecting these players' young age is a treasure for the nation to do well in the forthcoming global competitions. "I have told these girls that they have a great chance to do better because they are young. It is a senior national team with 16, and 17-year-old girls, while the older players are aged between 20 and 23 years, so they have a great chance of successfully rocking the country for forthcoming international competitions." Singo encouraged the players to keep up the hard work as it will nourish their talent and become world stars. "First of all, we are happy with what they did; it is a great victory, but I have also encouraged them to sharpen their talents. If they work hard, they will protect their talent to go far. That is their job, and if they take care of themselves, they will go far and successfully hoist the national flag in global competitions." The result has been a joyful moment for the country and the association where TCA Information and Media officer Atif Salim said it was an honour to see Tanzania win the title despite missing many experienced players. "We left with a squad that missed many experienced players. So it was a team that included new talents and a few senior players. We were a little worried about the team, but we thank the coaches for showing us that winning doesn't require much experience but requires diligence and discipline in the game."