TANZANIA Albino Society (TAS) has appealed to the government to include health services in the National Policy for People with disabilities, including persons with albinism. Morogoro Regional TAS Chairperson, Mr Hassan Mikazi made the appeal during the climax of the International Albinism Awareness Day held in Bukoba Municipal Council recently. “For quite a long time, health services to persons with albinism have been provided on charity basis...it is high time the government includes health services in the national policy," he said. Ms Suzana Mushi (45) who has been a school teacher for 18 years and served as a Community Development officer for four years, has expressed disappointment after being directed to resume her former job as a teacher. “Teaching in class needs perfect sight. Unfortunately, when a person with albinism gets older his/her sight gets weak. At my age (45), I cannot work properly as I did in the past 20 years," she said. She said people with disabilities are among the most vulnerable groups in society. They are often under educated, untrained, often unemployed and mostly poor, especially women, youths and those living in rural areas. During the climax to mark the International Albinism Awareness Day held in Bukoba Municipal Council, Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments) Innocent Bashungwa said in a speech read on his behalf by the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Major Gen Charles Mbuge that the process is underway by the government to review the policy. Equally, he tasked all the councils countrywide to ensure that they buy sunscreen creams for persons with albinism. During the review, all groups of people with disabilities, including persons with albinism will be covered...the step aims at offering better services to the members, including health services. Projections from the 2012 Population and Housing Census revealed that about 5.8 per cent were People Living with Disabilities (PLWD) while the number of persons with albinism stood at 16,000. During 2020/2021 financial year, at least 91,657 people with disabilities including persons with albinism were provided with health services worth 558.1m/-. Special committees to deal with issues related to people with disabilities were formed in 30 councils. People Living with Disabilities (PLWD) including persons with albinism are advised to contact their respective councils to get loans under 2 per cent arrangement set by the government. Mr Bashungwa equally appealed to people with disabilities to turn up on August 23 this year during the National Population and Housing Census day so that they can be counted. The 2022 census will be the sixth in the series. Other census took place in 1967, 1978, 1988, 2002 and 2012. More than 3 million people in Tanzania, both women and men or approximately 9 per cent of the population, have disabilities. Tanzania has adopted and implemented a number of laws, policies and standards pertaining to people with disabilities, including their right to productive and decent work, vocational training and basic services. The 1977 Constitution and its amendment prohibit discrimination against persons with disabilities. It is unfortunate that in Tanzania, some people still believe in superstition while fortune tellers mislead them to believe that persons with albinism are ghosts and their body parts can bring fortune and health. Data indicate that between 2000 and 2015, about 76 persons with albinism were killed while 182 others survived physical attacks. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Raphael Meela called for joint efforts to educate the community to avoid such outdated beliefs. However, he said since 2017, no killing incident involving persons with albinism had been recorded.