THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) is set to conduct a comprehensive roadworthiness inspection to all vehicles operating within the Dar es Salaam Port, in continued efforts to improve safety and efficiency at the terminal. According to a notice issued by TPA Director General Eric Hamissi, the move also seeks to curb preventable accidents that have been occurring at the Dar es Salaam Port, mostly caused by mechanical failures. “TPA in collaboration with police force and other law enforcement agencies will conduct a comprehensive roadworthiness inspection to all vehicles operating within the Dar es Salaam Port with effect from 13th June, 2022,” he said in an advert posted on the ‘Daily News’ paper yesterday. The TPA Director General said that there has been a series of accidents within the facility, attributing the crashes to mechanical defects. “We observed most of the accidents are caused by vehicles with brake failures, engine inefficiency and lack of brake/ indicator lights,” DG Hamissi said. He cited other vehicle defects as unsecured clutch system, poor (torn and old) quality of vehicle and incompetence/ negligence of drivers. “Vehicles with deficiencies will be penalized according to Police standing orders and refuted Port entrance,” the Authority said, noting further that any substandard truck in contravention found in the port , its owner will be penalized in accordance with the TPA regulations. The inspections will focus on 13 defects including; torn and old vehicles that are not road worthy, brake and clutch system failures, defective indicators/brake lights; defective and worn-out tyres as well as container twist locks. The inspection will also look at engine efficiency, defectives electrical/ignition system, drive wheel, dashboard panel system, the polluting levels, door locks system, allowed types of cargo, reflectors and reflective triangles and fire extinguishers. “Vehicle owners and agents are notified further that only accredited and licensed drivers will be permitted to drive into port premises and shall always wear appropriate Personal Protective Gears (PPEs),” read part of the notice. Due to an improved efficiency at the port, TPA has been receiving nods from stakeholders who are delighted with the transformations at the facility. Major shipping companies and maritime sector’s key stakeholders have regularly expressed satisfaction with enhanced efficiency at Tanzania's principal port of Dar es Salaam, which handles over 95 per cent of the country’s international trade. To cater for increasing demand for marine services, the TPA has massively strengthened operations in the country's major sea gateway, which is also the access route to six land-linked countries including Malawi, Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Speaking on various occasions recently, officials from shipping agencies and traders commended improvement of the port’s operations, efficiency and competitiveness, noting that the TPA has sufficiently been meeting the logistical needs of its clients. Among the admirers of the Dar es Salaam Port is Italian Ambassador in Tanzania, Marco Lombardi, who commends strong efforts by TPA to improve the capacity of Dar es Salaam port. “This is a very strategic port because it is in a very important African position to the world,” said Ambassador Lombardi recently.