THERE is someone a long time ago who said that trouble always comes in threes, or something to that effect, with no idea why he came up with that conclusion. This week I was sitting at Zakayo’s Pub sipping my beer and I thought of that fellow who came up with that saying, and I thought that if it was possible, he should not have specified the number, because in my case trouble came in more numbers than three. Have you ever woken up in the morning and as the day progresses you get a funny feeling that maybe you woke up in the wrong side of the bed? That is exactly what happened in my case, because that particular day trouble started very early for me, and it is as if it was going according to hierarchy, because it started with the mother of my clan and ended up with my last born, the Natural Disaster, or Baby Boom as she refers to herself in her social media accounts, before the collection of metal I call my car did the final act. That day I was nursing a serious hangover as a result of serious drinking the previous night, and I had convinced myself that I should oversleep to shake it off and maybe later swallow a bowl of hot soup full of pepper to clear my head. My head was still pounding in my dreams when suddenly the bedroom door was slammed shut, and opening one eye to see what was happening, I saw mama Boyi marching towards the bathroom. I tried to recall my precious sleep but as soon as I was starting to drift off, the mother of my clan shouted several loud ‘hallo’ in her phone while standing right next to the bed. I opened the same eye to glare at her so that she can get the message and leave the room, but it seems that she was bent on making sure that I did not sleep in peace. Noticing my discomfort, she decided to put her phone on loudspeaker and I could hear her talking to her sister, an ugly woman who believes that she is God’s answer to men.  “Yaani bado limelala, am telling you my sister I really regret why I did not listen to you when you tried to stop me from marrying this drunk, and to think that I refused marriage proposal from Jackson, who was such a gentleman,” she shouted into the phone. Jackson was her former classmate in high school, and as far as I knew, the fellow is a loser who lives from women and who has never done a day of honest work his entire life. “You should blame yourself my sister, yaani what you saw in that beer belly still beats me, because apart from being a total loser, that husband of yours is as ugly as a miner’s boot, and the way he smells of alcohol every single day makes me wonder how you survive…..but those are the crosses we have to bear,” I could hear her sister on the other side. It was not easy to pretend that you are asleep when such seditious words are uttered in your own bedroom, so I shot up and looked at my wife in a manner that suggested that I was about to dispatch her to her Nyakiusa ancestors if she continued slandering my character with her ugly sister. She shot me a venomous look and placed herself on the side of the bed as she issued a fake sob for the benefit of her sister. “The problem with you my sister is that I think that ugly husband of yours has bewitched you, because I don’t understand why you don’t allow us to introduce you to responsible men who will take good care of you,” her sister continued on the other side. I felt my blood pressure threatening to hit the top button as I shot from the bed and shouted into her phone… “If you knew such people you will not be single up to this day you witch!” I could hear her gasp on the other side as if she was about to have a heart attack, and I hoped that it happens slowly and painfully. I went to the bathroom and took a very cold shower to clear my head before going to the dining room, but the place had no sign that breakfast was cooked in that house that morning. I was figuring out whether to make an early appearance at Zakayo’s for some soup when my son, the domestic thug walked in. He looked at me as if he was seeing me for the first time in his life before coming closer, and I knew for a fact that he was suffering from the effects of the weed that he usually smokes. “Jah peace to you representative of Babylonian system, I and I are going to chant down the Babylonians down, peace and love man…aire aire!” he said and extended his clenched fist towards me. I looked at him and was convinced once again that the boy was exchanged in the labour ward when my wife gave birth and they took my real son away.  He sat down and looked at me with bloodshot eyes before telling me that he wanted to introduce me to his future wife whom Jah had selected for him. I did some quick calculations and decided that it was either the boy had made another girl pregnant or this time round he smoked more weed than he usually does. I told him that he should hold some serious talk with his Jah and explain to him how he can marry a woman when he did not have a job and he did not have any signs of getting one soon. I searched for the car keys so that I could leave the house before they succeeded in making me go crazy when in walked my daughter, the Natural Disaster, a. k. a Baby Boom. “Dad, I have taken time to think things over, and I think you and mum should allow me to drink alcohol,” she told me and walked out of the room. I wanted to shout at her to come back but I knew that it would be a recipe of spoiling my day further, so I walked out of the house to an empty parking, because someone was stupid enough to steal the junk.