Mtongani Primary School pupils in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam will be able to concentrate on their studies and learn in comfort after I&M Bank donated 100 desks to accommodate 300 pupils and 50 hearing devices for disabled pupils. Speaking at the handover event, I&M Bank Head of Consumer Banking Lilian Mtali said that, the support extended intended to create greater shared opportunity for the business and communities. “Opportunity is more than just money, it is about a better future for people and their communities everywhere in the world,” she said. She said this donation aimed at supporting government efforts in ensuring learning environments are improved day after day. In addition to the donation, the banks staff joined hands to support those pupils in need by extending various assistance such as pens and learning textbooks. The donation, valued at 12.5m/- has been received by Temeke District Commissioner Jokate Mwegelo on behalf of the Mtongani Primary School Management. Ms Mtali added I&M Bank vision is to refresh and improve the lives of Tanzanians every day. “We do business the right way for a better-shared future and this support will benefit pupils of Mtongani Primary School and give them the best chance for a successful education,” she noted. She said that partnerships between the private sector, government and non-government organisations were the most effective way to address common challenges and improve the lives of Tanzanians. On her part, Temeke District Commissioner Ms Jokate Mwegelo said the donation of desks by I&M Bank demonstrated the good relations between the government and the private sector which benefit the community and the desks will greatly help to alleviate the shortage they have had for many years. “Today’s support by I&M Bank to Mtongani Primary School shows how the government is working closely with the private sector in the country on improving the daily livelihood of our people. I call upon other organisations to emulate what I&M Bank has done for better future of our students,” she said. Speaking after receiving the donation, Mtongani Primary School Head Teacher, Victor Kangahti applauded the bank for the donation saying it has come at the right time as the school has been having shortage of desks due to high number of pupils which the school has been registering after the government introduced free education. “On behalf of the school management, I take this opportunity to congratulate I&M Bank for their donation and support to our school. As the head of this institution, I want to promise you that we will take care of the desks for the next generation which will be enrolled into this school,” he said.