SPIRITED national volleyball Under-19 Boys teams put the country into spotlight after qualifying for the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations after finishing overall runners up and third placed in the Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) Zone 5 Beach Volleyball Youth games in Burundi. The Zone 5 event that climaxed over the weekend in Bujumbura, saw Tanzania in superior form in the three-nation showdown. Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) Secretary general, Laurence Safari told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the event brought together six Boys Under 19 teams;  two from each from Burundi, Rwanda and Tanzania and the U-18 Girls’ teams. Under coach Shukuru Ally, Tanzania 1 team formed by Emmanuel Magesa and Omary Bure lost 2-0  to event’s champions Burundi made by  Diamel Ndayisaba and Lonnel Ndayisaba in the final. Burundi 1 backed by home supporters won the final taking the first set 21-18 and 12-19 in the second to win the trophy. Tanzania 1 sailed to the final after overcoming a set deficit to a thrilling 2-1 victory over Burundi 2. They started slowly, losing 19-21 in the first set only to level in second with 21-15 win and forced the decider that Tanzania won  15-7, while other semis saw Burundi 1 winning 2-1 over Tanzania 2 team of Hussein Salum and  Abass Makame. Tanzania 2 went on to finish third and confirmed country dominance at the event after beating Burundi 2 in the third-place playoff by a 2-1 (21-19, 9-21, 19-17. Safari said: “We thank God the tournament ended safely and the boys played really well in their first major competition.” He said the victory enables them to qualify for the continental level event which will be announced by CAVB later. Safari added: “Financial constraints prevented us from sending girls teams though they were prepared for the tournament.” Ally worked together with veteran coach Yusuf Mkarambati at the camp they pitched in Dar es Salaam. However, Safari commended National Sports Council (NSC) for its tremendous support in making this journey a success. He said the boys will soon start preparing for the African Cup tournament. 