DEAR nephew Milambo Greetings from this land where cattle roam on the streets. I thank Limatunda that we are all fine, because the watchful eyes of Liwelelo and the presence of the ancestors has been protecting us. Your aunt says hallo, although today she woke up with a nasty cough, and she has been sipping warm water mixed with ginger as if her life depends on it. The weather people in this confused city recently announced that we should expect minor strange diseases which they say is due to changing weather patterns, which includes serious wind filled with dust. I thank Limatunda that the predicted effects of the weather have not affected me in any way, and I think the cassava and arrow roots we fed on as young urchins has something to do with it. You see son, here in the big city people are very soft, unlike in our village, because a slight change in the weather pattern will witness a serious influx at local hospitals. As I told you before, the lifestyle of these people is very different, and it is surprising because eating junk food is considered prestigious. It is sad because what I would consider proper and nutritious food is sidelined and considered a poor man’s diet, which surprisingly consists of boiled cassava, vegetables, potatoes and fruits. You remember the last time when you came and we went to that fancy restaurant in the city, where they served things with strange names such as ‘burgers’, ‘pizza’ and ‘meat pie’, which are considered the rich man’s menu, but in actual sense I call it sugar coated poison. Anyway, enough about health complications in this confused city, because if I start telling you about the strange things in this city it will require me a whole week to tell you everything. I hope that you and your family are doing okay, and all the people in my beloved Ukumbisiganga, hoping that the power of Limatunda has been hovering over all of you. My dear nephew, you know how your aunt is fond of children, and the poor soul has a very soft spot for these vulnerable creatures. That is why three days ago she convinced me that we should visit a local orphanage which is located in a neighbouring estate, and she managed to convince several of her friends to accompany us. We went there in a convoy of about five cars, and I can assure you that the gifts we bought were enough to open a mini supermarket in any neighbourhood, because they were many. We arrived there at around midday, and they allowed us to mingle with the children, and when we gave them some of the food, you could see that the poor creatures were famished, because they ate as if they were afraid we would take the food away. My dear boy, it is fortunate that I was not the only one who noticed the weird behaviour of the children, and we did not have long time to notice one of the reasons. One of the caretakers, a large woman with a face which did not look welcoming was among the people who take care of the poor kids, and it was obvious from the word go that this woman was not fond of children at all. I would have thought that she could have pretended during the time that we were there, but I guess it was beyond her ability, because she screamed at the scared children, insulted them and generally made the lives of the poor little creatures miserable. I know you guessed right, your aunt and most of the people we went with did not take kindly to the treatment, and by the time we left, they knew exactly what we thought of them, and your aunt threatened to take the matter further. My dear son, as if that was not enough, when we left the orphanage, a few of us decided to stop at a restaurant just a few meters from the orphanage to have a meal, and we were shocked when we saw the harsh woman coming out of the gate. It would have been a normal act my dear boy, but for the fact that the woman was in the company of three other women, and they were laden with the things that we had just donated to the orphanage. It was annoying to see what was happening in broad daylight, and it was as if they had seen a ghost a few minutes later when we confronted them and demanded to know where they were taking the foodstuff. To cut a long story short my dear boy, what we found out was that those people usually sell donations made to the children, and they divide the money among themselves. I knew that this world is full of evil people, but I did not imagine that someone can stoop that low and do something like that, especially to children who have no parents. Anyway, one of the people who accompanied us told us that several studies have consistently shown that orphanage care often exposes children to serious harm, neglect and abuse, which can seriously impact a child’s physical and psychological development, and is often much more expensive than family or communitybased care. He said that despite powerful evidence of the negative impact of orphanage care, private donors continue to provide large amounts of funding to orphanages through donations, volunteer tourism, mission trips and other forms of fundraising – adding to the pull factors and drawing more vulnerable children into institutional care and away from family or community care. Your aunt was furious, as you can imagine, and she made several phone calls to her contacts to complain, and she promised that action will be taken….but that is human nature for you. Anyway let me pen off and see how your aunt is doing, say hallo to your beautiful wife, son and the unborn child, may the power of Limatunda protect all of you.