THE Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with United States   Barrow Neurological Institute (BNI) to improve neurological services in the country. KCMC Executive Director Prof Gileard Masenga said this during the signing of the MoU, adding that the collaboration between the two institutions will help to improve the hospital's neurological department and turn it into a state -of-the art neuro science centre. "The centre will provide training on neoro science thus increase the number of experts that is still very low in the country," he said. He  noted that  the  availability of the   service will also reduce the number of  patients  seeking the  medical  treatment  outside  Kilimanjaro region.  The patients   are forced to travel to access the service at Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) in Dar es Salaam or Benjamin Mkapa Hospital in Dodoma to seek the services".  Speaking at the event the only neuro surgeon expert at KCMC, Dr Rabieli Happiness said the new collaboration will provide a huge relief to patients in need of the services. "In the past 17 weeks a total of 151 neurosurgical related operations were conducted here, with Cranatory for Trauma operations leading the list with 67 operation cases”, she said. Commenting on the new collaboration between KCMC and BNI, Dr Rabieli said, apart from being beneficial to patients, it  is also important  to the hospital, because it will  improve it neurosurgical department as well as increase the number of neuro surgeons. She added: “The hospital will be subjected to new equipment which costs millions of shillings to acquire; it will also increase the number of neurosurgeons through the expected introduced neuro-sciences training. “The number of neurosurgeons is very small in the country compared to the demands of these specialists, their number in the country is less than 20, only four of them are women; in the Northern Zone there are only two neurosurgeons, one at KCMC and another one is based in Arusha.” For his part Mr Mike Hecomovich from BNI said the new collaboration was meant to help KCMC to embark on a programme that will increase the number of neurological experts in Tanzan, especially through neuro science education programs. "The collaboration is meant to bring to Tanzania through KCMC hospital the best technology in neuro sciences through a world class neurological related education”, he said. Mr Robert Spetzler also from BNI said the new collaboration between KCMC and BNI was a credible opportunity that would benefit KCMC and Tanzanians in general. "BNI will provide equipment which are very costly, as well as facilitating the education for potential new neurosurgeon students, both residents at KCMC and the new ones who are interested in learning this field; the intention here is to increase their (neurosurgeons) in Tanzania”, he added.  