NORMAL businesses in various areas of Dar es Salaam were temporarily on standstill on Sunday when Young Africans paraded their 28th Premier League title in a rare fashion. Thousands of the club's supporters thronged at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in the city to welcome the team from Mbeya where they received their silverware after the end of their 29th league match with Mbeya City on Saturday. From the airport all the way to the club's headquarters at Jangwani, people of all walks of life accompanied the open-top bus displaying the premier trophy and the Community Shield. Also on board were the team’s players, officials and technical bench members who could not help but rather enjoy the good company they were receiving from the passionate fans who queued all the way to their headquarters. The procession from the airport to headquarters consumed almost five hours as it was moving on the snail pace to make sure that those who lined up along the road had a clear view of the silverware. Fans chanted different songs in respect of their team as they momentarily forgot the available long distance between the two places as long as they march together with their beloved club.  It was the first time for a well decorated open top bus to be used in parading the champions an experience that Yanga members will cherish forever and one wonders what will happen if they clinch the CAF Championship one day. The commercial city was simply painted green and yellow, traditional colours of the club as passionate fans were in jovial mood celebrating their team's achievement after passing through a premier league drought period for the past four successive seasons.  The multitude of people was multiplied at the club's headquarters where many people flooded the area to give their team a deserved appreciation for the great achievement they have made this season.  Almost 99 per cent of the current Yanga players held the championship trophy for the first time with the exception of Deus Kaseke who was there when they last won the title in 2017. One of them is Feisal Salum who through his Instagram page wrote: "First of all, let me thank God for everything. The beauty of playing in the premier league is to win titles. "Ever since I began playing in the Mainland Premier League, this is the first time to win the championship. Thanks to my supporters and those of Yanga... together we made it." Also, Salum Abubakar 'Sure Boy' has made his own record for winning it twice with two different clubs after doing so while trading at Azam FC.