THE government has invited the French-based Michelin group to set up a tire manufacturing factory in Tanzania. This is part of the government's continued efforts to stimulate the economy through an industrialization strategy that will create employment and improve income to individuals and the country at large. The call was issued by the Deputy Minister for Investment, Trade and Industry, Mr Exaud Kigahe during an event to mark 30th partnership anniversary of the Tanzania-based company Superdoll and Michelin. He reiterated the government’s commitment to continue putting in place a conducive environment for trade and investment in the country. “The government has made tremendous efforts to attract investors in all sectors. We hope that this partnership will grow stronger and continue for many years to come and it’s our dream that one day Michelin will consider putting up a production plant here,” he said. Mr Kigahe was of the view that Tanzania is a strategic location for investment as it is a gateway to a number of African countries. “The country has potential for local and regional markets. Investing here provides access to most of eastern and southern Africa, an area with over 400 million people,” noted the deputy minister. Mr Kigahe also commended the partnership of Superdoll and Michelin for creating an immense multiple benefits to Tanzania such as employment, transfer of technology and related economic contribution to the economy. “Through this 30 years journey, Tanzania has witnessed huge technological transformation in the tire industry which all aimed at improving safety standards, comfort and economic returns as well as in protection of the environment,” he explained. Mr Kigahe added that the two companies’ partnership implies the improved business relations between Tanzania and France, and interaction between people of the two countries. For his part, while Superdoll Chairman, Mr Seif Ally Seif expressed satisfaction with cooperation between Superdoll and Michelin, noting that the management team will continue taking it further for an improved business. According to him, the two companies have so far transformed the transport sector with tubeless tires and ‘super single tubeless tires’ technology for heavy transit vehicles. “Right now, over 80 per cent of local car owners use tubeless tires; this has played a great role in reducing unnecessary accidents,” he said. Adding; “This is a modern technology that had not been introduced in Tanzania before, we are committed to bring new technology in the country to improve the transport sector and enhance safety in the motor vehicles.