THE government is committed to improving sporting arenas for athletes so that the athletes may have the opportunity to develop quality national teams and enable the country to host the African Cup of Nations soon. The Chief Government Spokesperson, Gerson Msigwa, revealed these plans yesterday in Dodoma in press briefing on the government's performance and plans. "We want our players to play in suitable venues; the government's goal is to make the sports arenas’ infrastructure favourable for them to train and compete. Whether owned by the ruling party, CCM, privately or government owned, we will help improve them." Early this month, the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports said the government will allocate 10bn/- for the renovation of football arenas countrywide to enable Tanzania meet the criteria for staging global and continental level competitions. The amount is solely set for the renovation of sports arenas. The docket Minister Mohamed Mchengerwa revealed those seven stadiums that will benefit are Jamhuri in Dodoma, Sheikh Amri Abeid in Arusha, Sokoine in Mbeya, CCM Kirumba in Mwanza, Mkwakwani in Tanga, Uhuru and Benjamin Mkapa arenas in Dar es Salaam. However, other renovation includes installing artificial grass and platforms in the Kigoma, Rukwa, Mtwara, Iringa, Tabora and Shinyanga regions, which will come after consultation with the owners of the plots. Msigwa, during the press briefing, made it clear that the government will not offer the funds to the ruling party (CCM) but, instead it will enter into a memorandum of understanding with the party to renovate those seven stadiums. "It is an agreement between the party (CCM) and the government to improve those stadiums so that our athletes can have favourable training and playing venues. We are also renovating our stadiums to meet the international standard, as we plan to host the Africa Cup of Nations soon." Apart from renovation, Msigwa added the government will continue supporting the national teams through the sports fund to ensure national teams have a favourable environment to develop their talents. "The government has deliberately decided to set up a sports fund; it has set aside 1.5 bn/-. We will continue adding the amount to support our athletes and national teams." Moreover, Msigwa applauded Serengeti Girls for qualifying for India's 2022 Women's World Cup finals. "I congratulate Serengeti Girls for qualifying for the World Cup; it is historical. We wish them all the best and we thank the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports for the tremendous support to our team and the Tanzania Football Federation." 