THE Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) and NMB Bank Plc have inked a 20bn/- Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for constructing warehouses for cooperative societies to preserve more crops and find reliable markets for farmers. The deal, which was signed here in Dodoma on Wednesday, came a day after the government unveiled national budget estimates which largely intend to boost agriculture production in the country. With the envisaged increase in agricultural production, the agreement is expected to avoid loss of harvests due to poor storage. TCDC Acting Registrar, Dr Benson Ndiege said following a challenge of shortage of warehouses, the government through the commission saw it important to sit with the NMB and discuss how to address the challenge. The talks between the two institutions resulted to signing of the agreement which would ensure that warehouses are built countrywide. “The agreement will help in addressing the challenge of lack of quality warehouses at the level of cooperatives for strategic crops,” Dr Ndiege said during the signing ceremony. Dr Ndiege said the warehouses to be constructed would also preserve other crops produced in those areas. He appealed to cooperative societies to accord cooperation to TCDC and the NMB by providing production statistics that could help know the size of a warehouse needed in a particular area. “I also urge the cooperatives to maintain the warehouses upon construction,” he appealed. On his part, NMB’s Chief Financial Officer, Juma Kimori said the bank has been cooperating with the ministry of agriculture in various areas with the aim of helping farmers to preserve and access markets. “After this agreement, we believe that our agribusiness retail banking unit will collaborate with the commission to implement construction of the warehouses,” Mr Kimori stated. He said the deal was part of the bank’s continued support to efforts by the government to make the agriculture sector grow. “For instance, we have seen in the 2022/23 national budget estimates the agriculture budget has increased by over 200 per cent,” he said. With the increased budget, it means that agriculture production will increase, thus the need for more storage capacity to guarantee quality of crops to win markets.