AS the country celebrated the ‘World Blood Donor Day (WBDD) 2022, authorities here led by the Health Minister Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazrui are calling for increased blood donations, because Zanzibar still faces insufficient blood supply in its health facilities. “We are asking everyone, between 18 and 65 years of age in good health and with weight not less than 50 kilogrammes and blood HB-90 per cent to continue donating blood,” Mazrui told a press conference. The minister also asked journalists and the media to help campaign for blood donation because Zanzibar’s blood reserve was below recommended level. He appealed to the media to increase public awareness on the importance of voluntary blood donation to save lives. According to Zanzibar Blood Bank Manager, Dr Salama Rashid Abdulla, every year, on average 14, 000-ml units of blood are collected in Zanzibar against the 16,000-ml units’ target required annually for the country. She asked all groups of people to turn-out wherever there is a call for blood donation. She said in the year (July 2019/June 2020) 14, 703 units were collected, followed by about 14,453 units, and 14,266 ml-units between July 2020 and May last year, adding: “Our target is to collect as much blood as possible. Let us save the world by donating blood.” She further said this year’s theme World Blood Donor Day 2022: ‘Donating blood is an act of solidarity. Join the effort and save lives,’ highlights the importance of donating blood and how it can save people's lives around the world. World Blood Donor Day takes place on June 14th every year with the aim of raising global awareness on the need for safe blood and blood products for transfusion and of the critical contribution voluntary, unpaid blood donors make to national health systems. World Health Organisation (WHO) says the day also provides an opportunity to call to action governments and national health authorities to provide adequate resources and put into place systems and infrastructures to increase the collection of blood from voluntary, non-remunerated blood donors. It says safe blood and blood products and their transfusion are a critical aspect of care and public health. They save millions of lives and improve the health and quality of life of many patients every day. The need for blood is universal, but access to blood for all those who need it is not. Blood shortages are particularly acute in developing countries.