NMB Bank on Tuesday donated a variety of medical equipment and education items worth 27m/- as part of its commitment to support sustainable development in Ubungo district. The donated items included five maternity beds and mattresses, 10 pressure gauges, ward separating curtains that were handed over to Ubungo District Hospital. The bank also donated 35 teachers’ tables and chairs to Kwembe Primary School and 110 students’ tables and chairs for Urafiki Primary School, both located in Ubungo district as part of its efforts to create a conducive learning environment. Speaking during the handover event held at the Ubungo District Hospital, the NMB Dar es Salaam Zonal Manager, Mr Donatus Richard said the donated items reaffirm the bank’s commitment to support sustainable development in areas where the bank operates. He said the bank’s efforts compliment the government’s development efforts, adding that the bank will continue working hand in hand with various development partners across the country to enhance sustainable development. “Education and health are key priorities when it comes to Corporate Social Investment (CSI) strategy. As partners, we are glad to continue supporting various Government development initiatives across the country and we believe the medical equipment donated today will help to improve Maternal and Child Health (MCH) services in Ubungo District,” Richard said. The Ubungo District Commissioner, Heri James during the event commended the bank for its timely support and urged companies operating in Ubungo District to support various efforts geared towards enhancing sustainable economic development urging that such initiatives will help improve the Standard of Living (SoL) of local communities. “There are many companies operating in Ubungo but surprisingly very few give back to the community in terms of CSR. We are so grateful for NMB because the bank has always been a friend in deed and they have not hesitated to support us whenever we approach them for help,” he said. He added, “The bank has donated medical equipment and the equipment donated will play a crucial role in curbing complications during childbirth”.