OVER 50m/- has been raised during this year Play for Sight Charity golf Day tournament held at the Dar es Salaam  Gymkhana Club (DGC) course over the weekend. The battle that saw Paul Muhato netting 66  strokes to win overall title, was blessed with over 76 golfers including the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs, Damas Ndumbaro. Ndumbaro said after the tournament that it was a worthy tournament as it is always good to help those in need and sports is a good platform for that. "I'm delighted to be among the golfers who brightened this tournament, but playing sports is also very important in improving physical and mental well-being," he added. The tournament whose main sponsor was Le Grande Casino, raised  25m/- which was handed  to Mzizima Lions Club who organised the event. Others who helped to support the tournament are co-sponsors CFAO Motors and IgaBet. The 18-hole showdown saw Muhato taking the overall title by two strokes after defeating his closest challenger, Laurence Wilkers who netted 68 strokes to finish second. Ellius Katwebaze emerged the gross winner after posting 70 strokes followed by Aasim Rahim who grossed 71 strokes. Division A winner was David Jansen who netted 74 strokes, Kaushik Mangarola who  scored 75 strokes was the runner up. The Division B winner was Nadir Somji who netted 72 strokes while Kausa Jeraj was the runner up after tying with the winner. Niels Christian who carded 71 won the Division C category. Ladies Division B the winner was Zahara Somji who carded 75 strokes while Maryanne Mugo emerged the runner up after netting 76 strokes. Division C title went to Yvonne Ondari who carded 73 strokes while Mariam Nalukwago who netted 79 strokes, ended the runner up. Iddah Kwanyah with 72 strokes and Baraka Sadiki with 74  strokes, emerged the  guest winners of the ladies and men's categories. Mugo and Christian also emerged winners of longest driver for  ladies and men. One of the organisers Lions Club Shanti Shah commended DGC and sponsors for tireless support towards the annual event and the golfers who participated in the tournament. "I want to thank all, we have managed to raise over 50m/ - which will cover eye surgeries, glasses and medicine for that in need all over the country,” said Shah. One of the sponsors Tharaia Ahmed, the CFAO Motors Sales & Marketing Director said they are happy to be given the opportunity as it is part of their social responsibility.