PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday highlighted the number of socio-economic benefits that Tanzania will get during and after implementation of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) project, including 7tri/- from domestically sourced goods and services for the project. According to the Head of State, the project, whose initial Host Government Agreement (HGA) was signed yesterday in Dodoma region, would cost about 70tri/- and 10 per cent of the amount is expected to circulate in the country, thus bringing socio-eco- nomic benefits. The project will be implemented between four to five years after its commencement after the conclusion of ongoing talks. The Head of State said the 7tri/- will circulate in the country due to. purchased local services and goods, like food items, construction materials, accommodation, fuel, customs, health and insurance during the project construction. She made the statement during an event for signing the Host Government Agreement (HGA) between the government and oil multinational companies for implementing the LNG project in Tanzania. The companies include Shell, Pavilion Energy Tanzania, Medco Energy, Equinor and ExxonMobil. The signing of the agreement was after efforts by President Samia to ensure that the project materialises after it stalled for a long time. The signing means it opens doors for discussion on other areas, and in December this year the government expects to sign the second HGA. The final investment decision is expected to be reached in 2025, according to the president. “When I took office as President, I said this must be done. So in April last year I directed that the talks should continue and issued six months. In September, I also directed the two teams from the government and investors to start negotiations immediately,” she stated at the event held at Chamwino State House. The project is being backed by Anglo-Dutch giant Shell and Norwegian Equinor which plans to feed gas from offshore blocks 1, 2 and 4 to a 10 million tonne per annum LNG complex at Lindi. This resource base is split equally between blocks 1 and 4, where Shell’s partners are Singapore’s Pavilion Energy and Medco Energi of Indonesia; and Block 2, where Equinor’s partner is ExxonMobil. “This is a special strategic project because it brings capital and income into the country, so it would change our economy, so I expect the conclusion of talks in December this year so the project could start,” President Samia directed. She noted that the project will create at least 10,000 jobs for Tanzanians, calling upon Tanzanians to get prepared for utilising the opportunity. “Also it will enable availability of locally processed gas, so it means there would be an opportunity to supply the gas for domestic and in- dustrial use,”. “I direct the negotiating on the part of the govern- ment that it should stand for national interests. The two teams should also embrace ‘give and take’, when we go to the negotiations I urge the two parties to have flexibil- ity,” she urged. The President also instructed that residents of Lindi and Mtwara where the project is implemented must enjoy benefits from it. She expressed optimism that the project will also em- power Tanzanians so that in future the locals could harness such resources on their own. “The journey should start now, we must build the capacity of Tanzanians to participate effectively and use natural gas,” she vowed. She further directed the energy ministry and finance ministry to sit and see how the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) would effectively participate and implement the project. She said the private sector as well should be prepared to offer services in the project, as well as citizens should prepare to provide services to benefit from the project.