PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has tasked the Tanzania Social Action Fund TASAF) to educate the programme beneficiaries on the need to emancipating them- selves from mental poverty, by converting their assets into money. President Samia made the statement during an event to hand over 123 out of 241 vehicles that have been bought for the Social Action Fund which is designed to empower the poor households to graduate out of poverty and have sustainable social and economic development. Ms Samia said, apart from undertaking various supportive development projects for the poor households in the country, TASAF should now start to provide education to uplift people’s mindsets that would end up uplifting their financial muscles. The President noted that there are people who have assets but lack knowledge on how to use them profitably for their own development. “Apart from issuing money for the beneficiaries, TASAF should work on liberating the mindsets of people, who have no idea on how they can use their assets for development,” said the president. Effective implementation of the strategy will make it easier for the government to fully implement the goal number one of the United Nations (UNs) Sustainable Development Goals (SGD’s), which is to end poverty in all its forms everywhere. “We want no one to be left behind, development is for all,” she said, commending TASAF for properly supervising implementation of the development schemes. The vehicles are set to be distributed to all councils in Mainland, Zanzibar and at the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG). She also called on the (PORALG) to copy the approach being used by TASAF on supervising implementation of the projects for effective attainment of the desired goals. “Before carrying on any project, it’s better to involve the public on what is going to be implemented, this helps to reduce complaints and other complications,” she instructed. “Moreover, there must be proper monitoring and supervision of the projects being undertaken… every cent to be disbursed must count,” added the Head of State. Going forward, President Samia instructed for proper use and maintenance of the new vehicles, saying they have to be used for the intended purpose. At the event, President Samia was told that over 105,000 households have been lifted from extremes poverty thanks to the productive social safety net (PSSN) programme which is being expected by TASAF. Such achievement makes Tanzania to rank first in Africa and second globally in terms of inclusive development for its people. TASAF Executive Director, Mr Ladislaus Mwamanga, made the revelation in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the event. “A total of 105,382 poor households who were living in abject poverty have enormously improved their lives economically among other aspects. The households are now ready to graduate…we have given them a transition period to prepare them for graduation and be economically stable and independent,” noted Mr Mwamanga. Mr Mwamanga revealed that the achievements which have so far been recorded by TASAF are owed to the strong commitment, the many policies and strategies being set by the government to ensure inclusive development among its people within the country. He indicated that TASAF was currently implementing phase 2 of PSSN 3, whereby 7,217 Shehias, streets and villages have been identified, reaching out to 1,279,325 poor households across the country. According to him, the number comprises approximately over six million people, noting that since PSSN III was launched in February, 2020 a sum of 296bn/- has been disbursed to the beneficiaries of the programme. Mr Mwamanga said 2,674 projects in 51 project authority areas have been executed by 253,117 poor households.