THE Principal Judge of the High Court of Tanzania, Mr Mustapher Siyani said the media is an important bridge between the Judiciary and the public. He thus said the media should be involved in building a positive image of the Judiciary by informing the public about good things that are happening to promote public confidence. Mr Siyani made the remarks on the third day of the visit of the Judicial Service Commission under its Chairman, the Chief Justice of Tanzania, Prof Ibrahim Juma that visited Lindi Rregion to speak to judicial officers and other stakeholders. “Media is an important bridge between the judiciary and the public. Do not stop criticising us when things go wrong, but you should also publicise positive issues that our courts are doing to build and promote public trust in institution," he said. Mr Siyani said the media is a major stakeholder in the Judiciary and in fulfilling its role of justice dispensation; the people it serves must have confidence in the body and should be aware of the efforts made by the Court in improving its services. He said the media has a role to play in shaping the image of the judiciary in the public whereby the desire of such media outlets through their work could create a positive or negative image for the Judiciary. He said that if the media were to focus only on bad news, public confidence would drop and if that happens, the Judiciary would lose the legitimacy of its existence and people would decide to take the law into their own hands. "No one will be safe living in a country whose people are taking the law into their own hands,” warned the Principal Judge. "Therefore, without compromising the freedom of the media in providing information that exposes wrongdoing for the purpose of correcting and improving, our expectation is  that the media will play its role to create a positive image of the judiciary by informing the public on good things that are happening in courts, ”he said. The principal judge also spoke about the Prosecutor's Office, where the Director of Public Prosecutions (DDP) and all those working under the office, should be guided by the principles set out in the country’s constitution  through Article 59B (4) which is to do justice, not to abuse power and to respect the public interest. He said these are the things that everyone who works under the office of the DPP should live. "The judiciary expects that the National Prosecution Office will act in accordance with these principles and if that is done and since this office is responsible for criminal investigation, then there will be no long-term pre-trial detentions. In addition, the completion of the investigation in the short term will enable the Court to also hear the relevant cases timely,” he said. Mr Siyani also identified the Community Service Officer as a key stakeholder in proposing alternative punishment for convicted offenders whose offenses are punishable by imprisonment of  less than three years as stipulated in section 3 (1) (4) of the Community Services Act (Cap . 291 R.E. 2019). He said community service officers are responsible for submitting a social investigation on  suspects who deserve alternative punishment for criminal offenses before the relevant sentence is imposed in accordance with section 3 (1) (4) of the Community Services Act (Cap. 291 R.E. 2002).