A CROSS-SECTION of commentators on Monday expressed high hopes ahead of the 2022/23 national budget, which will be tabled in the National Assembly here today, saying the new budget will bring socio-economic impacts to the majority of Tanzanians. This is due to the fact that a huge share of the budget, President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s second budget, is expected to go to agriculture, infrastructures and provision of water services, the sectors that touch the majority of citizens. When presenting the National Development Plan and the budget ceiling for 2022/2023, in the august House in March this year, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba told Members of Parliament that the government plans to spend 41.6tri/- in the next financial year 2022/23 in recurrent and development expenditures, highlighting key priority areas of focus with agriculture given much attention. He said the agriculture sector in the next fiscal year would be allocated a huge sum of money than has ever happened before. According to the minister, in the next budget, the government's proposals in the National Development Plan 2022/23 were complementing the implementation of the Third National Five-Year Development 2021/22- 2025/26 which aims at putting up a competitive and industrial economy for the wellbeing of Tanzanians. Some analysts and politicians who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ ahead of today’s tabling of the national budget expressed high optimism. Mr Constantine Kanyasu, Member of Parliament for Geita Urban, said the next budget is promising since 70 per cent of it is directed to infrastructure projects and agriculture. “The government decision is good since it would lead to agricultural reforms. Agriculture should be lifted by allocating enough funds,” Mr Kanyasu stated. “When you look at the tone of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, you would realise her intent of bringing socio-economic reforms. This budget is expected to reflect that tone. So, I expect that ministries and institutions would dance to the same tone by attracting investors and removing bureaucracy,” he added. Bukene MP, Selemani Zedi, was optimistic that the coming budget would improve services to citizens because a huge amount of the budget is expected to be channeled to agriculture, road infrastructures and water. “Agriculture employs the majority of Tanzanians, so with this budget which intends to revolutionise the sector, means many citizens will benefit,” Mr Zedi stated. For his part, Mafinga legislator Cosato Chumi (CCM) said he was expecting that agriculture development would be in focus in the next fiscal year after learning from the National Development Plan and budget ceiling as presented by Dr Nchemba, last March. “The ministerial budgets have given us a picture of how the national budgets would be. For instance, the ministry of agriculture has set aside 150bn/- for subsidising fertilisers, something which would really bring impact on agricultural production,” he said. He expressed hopes that a huge focus would be on empowering farmers and finding markets for their produce. Meanwhile, Mr Deogratius Temba, gender budget expert, noted that the increase in the national budget by over 10 per cent will bring benefits to citizens. “It is my expectation that the new budget will address high costs of living to citizens,” Mr Temba stated. Another commentator, Dr Kassim Mhina, said the government has to consider expanding the tax base by improving infrastructures of productive sectors like fisheries and agriculture and empowering fishers and farmers. An economist, Prof Haji Semboja, said he believed that a huge part of the budget would go to finance the development plan by improving infrastructures and boosting the industrial sector.