THE immaculate course at the Sea Cliff Resort of Mangapwani, Zanzibar is in good shape today to host the Summer Open June monthly mug golf tournament. With top golfers on course, the monthly tournament tees off this morning at the club’s course. Bringing together golfers from host clubs and other invited clubs across the country the event is open for both men’s and ladies’ golfers. The club’s manager Elias Soka, told the ‘Sunday News’ from Zanzibar yesterday that preparation for the tournament has been finalised. “I want to politely remind golfers and kindly invite them to join us for the June Monthly Mug, scheduled on 26th June 2021 at Sea Cliff Resort Golf course in Zanzibar,” he said. Soka said the course is in good condition and he hopes golfers will enjoy their weekend playing in the event. “We have prepared a wonderful tournament that is worthy for the monthly mug status, due to a good backup from sponsors, we believe none will regret coming here for the event,” added Soka. The manager added this weekend’s event is proudly sponsored by Auric Air Service Ltd, Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar, Print Plus Media Ltd, QMB Zanzibar, Zanzi Resort, Chako Zanzibar and Zuri Rituals. Soka extended his gratitude to all sponsors for their tireless support towards the development of the game in the Isles’ only course. He said it is an open tournament for both men and ladies and appeals for golfers to turn up in big numbers to make it a success. Soka added that this month's tournament will be a par three format to give players a different taste. He said the entry fee for those wishing to take part at the competition will be 52 US dollars, including sharing cart, halfway lunch, two bottles of water, practice and wine testing. Sea Cliff Resort & Spa golf has been nominated for the World Golf Awards 2022. World Golf Awards are one of the most coveted awards programmes in the golf tourism industry. The programme strives to boost the domestic and international golf tourism market, and also enhance the golf tourist customer experience.    