THE planned acquisition of Tanga Cement by Scancem International DA (Scancem), a subsidiary of Heidelberg Cement AG, which owns Twiga Cement, faces protest from some players in the industry, who are concerned that the merger will make the companies more dominant in the market. Scancem International DA (Scancem), announced in October, last year that they have finalised the terms with AfriSam Mauritius Investment Holdings Limited, the owner of Tanga Cement, upon which the former would acquire 68.33 per cent of the shareholding of Tanga Cement. The 137.33bn/- takeover was awaiting regulatory approvals by relevant authorities, including by the Tanzania Fair Competition Commission (FCC) and the Tanzania Mining Commission (TMC). But other actors in the cement industry are complaining that should authorities sanction the merger; it will further cement Twiga Cement's position as the country's largest cement producer by output and capacity. Speaking to the 'Daily News' on condition of anonymity, a local investor who has been following closely the proposed takeover, claimed that if Twiga Cement and Tanga Cement would eventually merge, the former’s market shares would rise to 47 per cent, thus, well above the 35 per cent threshold set by Tanzania's laws. "We're aware that the FCC has approved Scancem’s proposed acquisition of Tanga Cement despite the preexisting concerns that a merger between the two companies will raise the acquiring firm’s market shares beyond the 35 per cent set by the laws. "The move will harm the interests of other players in the market. With such dominant shares, Twiga Cement can easily dictate terms in the country's cement market, they can decide to lower the price or make other decisions that would affect other producers," he said. He insisted that the Fair Competition Act prohibits a merger that creates or strengthens a position of dominance in a market: “The rationale for this provision is that the merging firms will dampen or curb the ability of other companies existing in the market to raise prices above the competitive level.” He added: "But a merger could also pose a security threat, because not only a company with a dominant market share can manipulate the market, but could also create an artificial crisis if their wishes are not met, and that could paralyse the cement industry and lead to public unrest.” Pursuant to Section 11(1) of the Fair Competition Act, a merger is prohibited if it creates or strengthens a position of dominance in a market. The FCA provides that a firm will be considered to have a dominant position if the post-merger firm’s share of the relevant market exceeds 35 per cent. Also, if acting alone the post-merger firm can profitably and materially restrain or reduce competition in the market for a significant period of time. But the Commission may still, upon the application of a party to a merger, grant an exemption for the proposed merger, it will contribute to greater benefits to the public than the detriments to competition. FCC is mandated to control mergers and acquisitions that have the effects of appreciably preventing, restraining and distorting competition in relevant markets among other duties and responsibilities. The control of mergers and acquisitions play an important role in ensuring that markets in different sectors of the economy remain competitive.