OH my God, it is June already! Is it not just yesterday when we wished each other Happy New Year? It is difficult to believe that six months have passed since the New Year celebrations. Days are surely running at supersonic speed. What’s the hurry? I have, in my hands, the Saturday Good Citizen, May 21 edition, and reading this article on page 7 titled: ‘Your Mobile phone: Is it a blessing or ‘menace’?’ In this interesting article, we are educated about the advantages and disadvantages of the now universal mobile phone in our life. I believe the writer laboured as to what title to give her piece. If I were her, I would have replaced “menace” with “curse”. My title would then read: “Your mobile phone: Is it a blessing or ‘a curse’?” Or, I would have ventured into a more idiomatic formation: “Your mobile phone: Is it a boon or bane?” I quickly turn to reading the section titled: “Negative influences”, and convince myself that the writer was not thinking of influences, but rather, of impacts. The negative impacts of the mobile phone. Here is what she tells us: “Despite the usefulness and necessity of mobile phones in our day-to-day life, there are many downsides to using ‘mobile phones’ regularly”. Clearly, using the phrase “mobile phones” twice in this 20-letter sentence is boring and illadvised. Can we get rid of one of them? Here is our proposal: “Despite their usefulness and necessity in our day-to-day life, mobile phones have their downsides when over-used”. The writer lets us know what she thinks are negative impacts of the mobile phone: “One of the major drawbacks of using mobile phones is their ability to weaken social emotions; making people more socially disruptive, ‘rational’ & introverted; engaged in their world”. This is being somewhat unfair to the mobile phone. As I am typing this article on my laptop, I am engaged in a world of my own. There are many people around me, but they have no idea what I am doing. Anyway, the word “rational”, in the writer’s sentence, attracted my attention. What does it mean being rational? According to the Macmillan English Dictionary for Advanced Readers, one meaning of “rational” is: “thinking about what you do in a calm way, and making sensible and intelligent decisions”. If the mobile phone makes people more rational, well and good. Why does the writer feel that this is a drawback? Could it be that she is accusing the mobile phone of making people “irrational”, instead? If that is the case, we need to re-write the sentence: “One of the major drawbacks of using mobile phones is their ability to weaken social emotions; making people more socially disruptive, ‘irrational’ and introverted; engaged in their world”. The writer has a long list of negative effects of the mobile phone, and this includes accidents: “Using the mobile phone while driving is also a major reason for ‘car’ accidents and ‘consecutive’ deaths”. Not all vehicles on the road are cars. The writer should have considered using “motor vehicles” instead of “cars”. It is also intriguing as to why she opted to use the adjective “consecutive”, given that not all accidents result into deaths, thank God. The meaning of the word “consecutive” is given as: “following one after another in order and with nothing else in between”. This means we have to rephrase our sentence into something like the following: “Using the mobile phone while driving is also a major cause of ‘motor vehicle’ accidents which, sometimes, result into injury and even death”. The writer highlights the advantages of the mobile phone, but we also have to heed her advice, that that the gadget has its ill effects. As the sages have it: “too much of a good thing…”. lusuggakironde@gmail.com