THE government has reiterated commitment to continue working with the United Nations (UN) agencies in promoting media development, freedom of expression, access to information and digital transformation in the country. Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology Dr Jim Yonazi said this at the opening of a four days Consultation Workshop for Consolidation of Information, Communication and Information Technology Results in Joint Government and UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) in Bagamoyo Town on Tuesday. Dr Yonazi made the remarks in a speech read on his behalf by Assistant Director- Department of Information Services Mr Patrick Kipangula at the workshop jointly organised by the government and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). The permanent secretary stated that the government has partnered with the United Nations to develop UNSDCF launched on May 17th this year by Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango, which will be implemented from the year 2022 to 2027. “This plan defines and seeks to achieve the National Development Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals (SGGs). It also affirms the priority steps for the development of information, communication and information technology as a sector and its contribution to achieving the key outcomes within the four pillars of the UNSCDF which are People, Planet, Success and Peace,” he noted. He added that the UNSDCF encompasses key objectives that are in line with the Mainland and Zanzibar national development plans as well as the UN development plans to promote the role of media development, access to information, freedom of expressions and digital transformation in bringing about sustainable development. For her part, Head of the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (RCO) – Tanzania Ms Shabnam Mallick said that a free and pluralistic media environment is essential for facilitating public dialogue as a forum for political debate and accountability. “It also helps shape social attitudes towards reaching the Sustainable Development Goals such as gender equality,” Ms Mallick said. “The cooperation framework must help turn our collective promise to leave no one behind into tangible action for people on the ground. UN country teams will need more than ever, to move beyond national averages to look at more specific data, with a strengthened focus on inclusion and tackling inequalities,” she explained. During the recent launching, Dr Mpango affirmed the commitment of the government to support the framework “The government is fully committed and pledges to work together with all partners to implement this frameworks. I call upon all development partners to participate in the implementation of the Framework,” Dr Mpango said. He said that the government was pleased with the consultative process involved in the development of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework.