AIR Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) is expected to resume direct flights to China this month, the government has said. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Deputy Minister Mbarouk Nassor Mbarouk informed the National Assembly while winding up the debate for his ministry’s 2022/2023 budget estimates. The deputy minister said that according to reports from the Tanzanian Embassy in China, for more than 60 days the China’s financial hub Shanghai has been in lockdown and some activities in ports, banks and industries and public transport were also suspended in efforts to contain the spread of the disease. “The measures being taken by China show how the country has taken the disease seriously compared to other countries in the world,” the deputy minister said. He called upon Tanzanian traders to remain calm because the restrictions imposed do not affect the business community only but also Chinese citizens. Mr Mbarouk said the government has been taking various measures to ensure that business community in the country continue to access important services after China imposed covid-19 restrictions in Shanghai and some parts in Beijing capital as measures to control the spread of the disease. Ambassador Mbarouk said among steps taken by the government included establishment of special desks to help traders who want to order commodities from China and open a consulate in Guangzhou China to continue serving the citizens. He also said the government also started cargo flights to China to facilitate availability of various commodities. No restrictions should be put on residents entering or leaving residential compounds except for those in middle and high risk areas and areas put under covid-19 restrictions, the statement said. Shanghai will also essentially resume public transport services, including buses, rail transport and ferries, in the city, according to the statement. Taxis and online-hailing services will resume business and private cars will be allowed on roads, except for those in middle and high risk areas and areas put under covid-19 restrictions, it said.