RESEARCHERS at the Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TaCRI) have come up with novel idea of controlling pesticides that wreak havoc on coffee plantations. The use of alcoholic drinks, particularly local brews such as Mbege, Dengelua and Rubisi is said to be working miracles on shielding the cash crop from the Coffee Berry Borer (CBB), a harmful pest to commercial coffee plantations. An Integrated Pest Management (IPM) specialist with TaCRI, Mr Fredrick Magina said here on Thursday that the use of Berry Borer traps is able to reduce the pests’ infestation by 80 to 85 per cent in the field on an annual basis. “We have developed a trap using discarded plastic bottles painted with red color, with methylated spirit and local brews to attract the pests in the field,” explained Mr Magina, who is also the brains behind such a noble intervention. The traps, which attract the harmful pests through color and scent can capture between 300 and 500 adults CBBs on a weekly basis. According to the researcher, the use of traditional brew has replaced Endosulfan-Thiodan an off-patent organochlorine insecticide and acaricide that is being currently being phased out globally. “Our institute has already deploying such an intervention in coffee producing regions in the country,” he disclosed. The CBB is a very harmful pest, with the main damage caused to the fruit. This can result in the falling of the fruits from the trees, as well as losses in the weight and quality of the seed destroying the marketable product. The beans affected lose the prerequisite quality standard needed for specialty coffee. “The affected yields end up classified as second-class, which are difficult to market and are sold for second-grade coffee preparations,” added the researcher. For decades, industrial synthetic chemicals have been used to control coffee insect pests. Located on the foothills of Mt Kilimanjaro, TaCRI has for over 15 years developed a number of IPM strategies and improved some technologies which are ecologically and environmentally friendly, in controlling coffee insect pests.