SOME analysts have differed on yield direction outcomes for today’s Treasury bill auction by projecting for uptick while others for a downtick, and still all agree on oversubscription. The analysts’ projections are based on the fact that the debt market experienced a drop in appetite for Treasury securities since the coupon rates were reviewed back in April, hence kept pushing down the tender size in primary auctions. Alpha Capital Head of Research and Analytics Imani Muhingo told Daily News that dropping yields on government securities opens doors for other competitive fixed income products such as CRDB Bank’s “Mzigo Flexi”. “Yes, Mzigo Flexi has competitive returns compared to the market, most similar products which have less than 8.0 per cent return,” Mr Muhingo said. “Moreover,” he said, “the flexibility on interest payments [for Mzigo Flexi] is an added advantage”. The Mzigo Flexi offers depositors with CRDB to earn up to 9.0 per cent interest rate per annum for 36 after investing not less than 1.0m/-. The product targets individuals, including sole proprietors, employees, retirees and also groups’ institutions and businesses. “The only challenge would be liquidity,” Mr Muhingo said, “I believe with Mzigo Flexi you’d need to hold the [Fixed Deposit Receipt] FDR paper to maturity to recoup your principle.” The results of 364 days T-bill held a fortnight ago showed the paper yield to maturity was 4.68 per cent while the five-year T-bond weighted average yield-to-maturity was 8.93per cent. Vertex International Securities, Advisory and Capital Markets, Manager Ahmed Nganya said as government securities yields are heading south, investors should look for other venues such as equities, fixed deposits and the like. “It [is] wise for investors to look at other venues, which offer higher returns with calculated risks,” Mr Nganya said. He also said they expect today’s Treasury bills auction to oversubscribe with an increase in yields. While Zan Securities projected that the auctioning of treasury bills result to register a slight decrease. “We expect [T-bill] yields to slightly register a downtick,” Zan said in its weekly market wrap-up. The analysts’ estimation is based on the last week's 15 years of Treasury bond primary market results where it recorded a subpar performance while was undersubscribed despite a decrease in yields. “The persistent decline in yields is the reason for the subpar performance…. The weighted average coupon yield dropped by 75bps compared to the previous auction,” Mr Muhingo said. Vertex had it that a decline in yields is “always associated” with a high appetite because investors become willing to pay higher prices for a particular bond. “However,” Mr Nganya said, “a decline in yield of the 15-year bond was mainly due to a reduction of its coupon rate from 13.50 per cent to 11.15 per cent”. The government from this particular bond was looking to raise 123bn/- but the public only tendered 90.3bn/-. “This means”, Orbit Securities said in its weekly market synopsis, “the public only subscribed up to 64percent of the offered amount.” Historically the 15-years paper hasn’t been investor’s go-to tenor, however, it had picked up popularity not long ago, following extreme prices on the longer-tenor investors resorted to 15-year paper as a substitute to the highly-priced 20- and 25-years bonds.