THE government has paid a total of 5.7bn/- as compensation to more than 642 residents in Lindi who have paved way for execution of the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project. Minister for Energy January Makamba revealed that on Saturday, saying the government has already secured title deeds for the project that will be executed in Likong’o and MtoMkavu villages in Lindi municipality. The minister was speaking at the Chamwino state house in Dodoma during the signing of the Initial Host Government Agreement (HGA). “The LNG project will be implemented along with development of upstream infrastructures in order to enable harvesting this resource,” he said, adding that the project will change Tanzania’s economy. Mr Makamba said oil and gas exploration started in 1950s and there are some achievements that were made. However, the discovery of and gas exploration started in 1950s and there are some achievements that were made. However, the discovery of natural gas was done in 1970 at Songosongo and later on in 1982 at Mnazi Bay. “Between 2010 and 2012, gas exploration continued, and by May a total of 57.54 trillion cubic feet of natural gas was discovered in various parts of the country, onshore and offshore,” he said. Adding; “Due to that huge amount of discovery, the government decided to begin a project for processing the natural gas for transporting and selling in the international market”. The minister added that the government is also expecting to build a processing plant offshore. The plant is located between 150 and 160 kilometres from the Indian Ocean. For his part, the General Manager of Equinox Company, Jared Ratliff commended the government for prioritising execution of the LNG project. “It has been a long journey, and we still have a long journey, discovery of natural gas is an opportunity for Tanzanians. We thank the government for its cooperation,” he said. According to him, Tanzanian natural gas has great potential for global market competitiveness and that over 9tri/- has been invested for exploration. Mr Ratliff went on to explain that since Tanzania’s LNG has a small amount of carbon dioxide, then it will have competitiveness in the global market. “So this is a key project that will have efficiency in the global market,” he noted, adding that they will be working closely with the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC). Earlier, the Director General of Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA) Eng Charles Sangweni said be- tween 2010 and 2016, the government through the TPDC cooperated with five international oil companies to do explo- ration of natural gas in block number one, two and four offshore. The blocks were run by Shell Explo- ration Company in collaboration with Ofil, which is currently known as Mobicol, and Pavilion on the side of block number one and four. “But for block number two, it is run by Equinox Tanzania in collaboration with Exzon Mobil from the US,” he said. Eng Sangweni who is the chairman of the government negotiation team in the project said following the discovery, the government decided to develop natural gas through the project of transforming it from gaseous state to liquid state (Liquefied Natural Gas) project, where the gas will now be transported and sold in the international markets. “In order for this project to be implemented, it was necessary that an agreement be made between the government and oil companies which discovered the gas,” he added. In October 2011, a team from the government was formed to negotiate and started the discussion on the HGA. The talks started in November, 2021. The HGA will build the founda- tion for development of the LNG project in the country. The agreement sets business and economic arrangements for a win-win situation between the two parties. The agreement also identifies government expectations through taxes, citizens’ participations, and others. “In the talks, our aim was to ensure that the government and the citizens get the right share in the natural gas while ensuring that the project is effectively implemented, the negotiations lasted for six months from November last year,” he said.