DEUS Kaseke remains the only Young Africans legend in the current squad to lift the club’s 28th Premier League title as he was present when the Jangwani street giants last won the championship in 2017. It is going to be a great day for him as the rest of the team members will be celebrating with the glittering trophy for the first time making it a memorable experience to them which will stay in their lives forever. Yanga are scheduled to officially receive the NBC Premier League silverware at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya after the end of their 29th match against Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya today. Regardless of the outcome of the game after the end of 90 minutes of play, the new champions will return home with the throne after missing it for four seasons. Skipper Bakari Mwamnyeto, who is going to be the first player to hold high the silverware, is making a new chapter in his football career as it happens to be the first time for him to achieve that status. However, a number of new records have been stamped by the Jangwani street side as they have become the first team to clinch the title under new sponsors NBC, and the first team to grab the upgraded silverware. Also, they have become the first side to receive a championship bonus of 500m/- from Azam Media Limited. However, on the pitch, hosts Mbeya City will be keen to spoil the championship celebrations by trying to be the first team to disappoint the new champs who up to this juncture, they are yet to taste league defeat. In simple words, the elapsing season has been great for Yanga knowing that it was not an easy job to claim the league honour from their traditional rivals Simba who dictated terms in the past four successive seasons. Out of 28 games played, Yanga have won 21 matches, recorded seven draws and have scored 47 goals in the process hence with two matches to go before the season is over, they have a chance to change the stamped statistics. On the other hand, Mbeya City who are 9th on the table with 35 points know exactly how important the game is for them to win because bagging three points will surely guarantee them an opportunity to be part of next season’s competitors. Elsewhere today, Coastal Union will be at their Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga welcoming Kagera Sugar in an explosive league encounter while at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi, wounded Polisi Tanzania face on form Geita Gold. At Karume Stadium in Mara, Biashara United take on KMC whereas relegation threatened Mbeya Kwanza have a tough test against Ruvu Shooting at Majimaji Stadium in Songea. The other thrilling fixture will unfold at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma where Dodoma Jiji have pointed their arsenal at Azam as each eye to grab three points.