PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has asked commercial banks to consider lowering their interest rates on loans provided on foreign currency for agriculture a move that will attract more investments in the sector. This will also reduce delays for investors to get returns of their investment as well as enable local financial institutions to compete with their foreign counterparts. She said the interest rates charged on local currency loans for agricultural sector have been lowered to a single digit, noting that it's high time for banks to do the same while lending in foreign currencies. President Samia made the statement yesterday in Misenyi District of Kagera region, when she toured the Kagera Sugar Company (KSC) factory and sugar cane plantation to inspect investment that has been put in place. “For our part in the government through the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) we shall consider lowering the interest rates for agriculture, we hope that commercial banks will do the same on loans issued in terms of  foreign  currencies,” she noted. Her statement was in response to the request by KSC Board Chairperson, Mr Seif Ally Seif who asked for government’s intervention on the high interest rates being charged on loans provided in foreign currencies. He said the   company is looking forward to constructing another factory in Karagwe District, so as to be able to produce 300,000 tonnes of sugar annually. “But this needs financing amounting to 550bn/- to be borrowed from financial institutions, here we need to have relief on the interest rates,” said Mr Seif. His request was backed up by the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe who asked President Samia to consider meeting with managing directors and chief executive officers of commercial banks to discuss shortcomings of the higher interest rates in the agriculture loans. Responding, President Samia said the government is equally concerned with the challenges facing the sector, promising to work on the request. “There is a need to lower the interest rates, since most of the investments are done in dollars,” she noted, adding that this will also help to end the sugar deficit in the country. She also commended the KSC for its major investment and employments that have been created for local Tanzanians. Earlier Minister Bashe said the Bagamoyo Sugar Limited will start production in July this year, a move that will help to reduce gap in sugar supply, hence meet consumers’ demands. For her part, the Minister for Investment, Industry and Trade, Dr Ashatu Kijaji said there are plans for the available sugar factories to start producing industrial sugar, instead of importing the commodity. She said that already Kilombero Sugar Company and TPC Sugar Company have agreed to start producing  industrial sugar, a move that will help to save the country's foreign currency that has been used to import the commodity. “The deficit for industrial sugar in Tanzania is 100 per cent, there is a need to address this gap,” said the minister. Going forward, she said the available sugar factories in Tanzania have an installed capacity to produce   462,863 tonnes of sugar annually, while the national demand stands at an average of 386,000 tonnes. “In 2021/2022 the factories set a target to produce 394,606 but by May 2022 they had produced only 306,871 tonnes, 77 per cent of the target,” she said. In another development, President Samia explained the initiatives being taken by the government to meet the shortage of edible oil in Tanzania. She said the government has come up with large-scale farming for sunflowers and palm trees to be used in production of the cooking oil that will curb the existing shortage in Tanzania. For a long time, Tanzania has been importing cooking oil; however this was interrupted by the eruption of Covid-19 pandemic that reduced the supply causing scarcity of the commodity in the country. “We have to make better use of the available fertile land to establish large scale plantations, here in Kagera region we are expecting to have between 70,000 and 100,000 acres of land,” she said, adding that the move will help to boost the economy of the region by creating job opportunities for locals. According to her, the government has set aside a budget of 20bn/- for execution of large scale farming for sunflower and palm trees farms that will use modern seedlings.