DODOMA-based Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) has resumed its medical outreach programme by deploying a team of seven specialist doctors to Manyara region to offer medical services. Manyara Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Makongoro Nyerere urged Manyara residents who suffer from health challenges to make use of the opportunity for getting medical services, instead of travelling all the way to Dar es Salaam or Dodoma to seek such services. “Today, I feel very proud to welcome a team of specialist doctors from the BMH. We are having them for five days from Monday,” remarked the Manyara Regional Commissioner while launching a camp of specialist doctors from the BMH at the Manyara Regional Referral Hospital. Mr Makongoro expressed gratitude to management of the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) for conducting a medical outreach programme to other regions. “I am grateful to the BMH management for its commitment to send its specialist doctors to other regions for a medical outreach programme,” he said. Team leader of the BMH special doctors to Manyara, Dr Faustine Bukanu, informed the Manyara Regional Commissioner that the main goal of the BMH medical outreach programme was to extend health services available at the BMH to regional referral hospitals. “BMH's medical outreach programme also is geared towards building capacity to doctors in regional referral hospitals,” said the ENT specialist doctor of the BMH. Dr Bukanu pointed out a team of specialist doctors sent to Manyara Region as cardiologist, gynecologist, urologist, dentist, ophthalmologist, neurosurgeon and ENT specialist doctor. Mr Paul Shawishi, who is resident of Galapo Village in Manyara Region, urged the Manyara Regional Referral Hospital to extend a medical camp conducted by the BMH to more than one week and that if the medical camp would be extended will accommodate a good number of people turned out for medication. “Five days are not enough for a number of people to get medication. I urge the Manyara Regional Referral Hospital to consider extending this camp to more than five days” he said.