THREE district councils in Dodoma city have been earmarked for pilot project of Local Climate Adaptive Living Facility (LoCAL). The project, to cost 343.9m/-, will be piloted in district councils of Chamwino, Mpwapwa, and Kondoa. It will be implemented by the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government-PMO-RALG) in collaboration with the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF). It is designed to build climate change impact resilience through adaptation in local government's planning and budgeting systems as well as increasing awareness. However, the LoCAL will help communities in those districts to respond to climate change at the local level, and increase the amount of finance available to local governments for climate change adaptation. Opening the working session of the implementers of the program recently in Dodoma, Director of Policy and Planning from the President’s Office – Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr John Cheyo, on behalf of the deputy permanent secretary of the ministry, explained that the programme aims to enable citizens to build resilience to the effects of climate change. Mr Cheyo hinted that during implementation the funds will be used to enable citizens to cope with the effects of climate change, including the construction of water distribution systems for domestic use and irrigation. However, he instructed the selected councils to implement the program effectively and ensure that they deliver good results to save the community and build trust in donors. He further argued that doing so will provide an opportunity for other stakeholders to intervene with the aim of implementing the project nationwide. UNCDF representative, Ms Aine Mushi called on the councils to work diligently in implementing the project to ensure high performance and commitment to addressing the challenge of climate change in the country. She added that also the project aims to push forward economies by increasing financing for and investment in climate change adaptation at the local level in LDCs and other countries.