PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has hailed religious leaders for their cooperation with the government in maintaining national peace, unity and tranquility for national development. She also reiterated the government's commitment to continue cooperating with religious institutions in ensuring all their social development projects are implemented and completed on time. The president made the statement on Friday in Bukoba municipality, Kagera region during an event to inaugurate the Jami'ulIstiqaama Mosque, which was built by the Istiqaama foundation through the government of Oman. She noted that religious institutions have a greater role in shaping behaviour of individuals to become good citizens for national development. “I call upon religious leaders to continue using prayer houses in building the nation with a fear of God, well-mannered citizens who uphold national peace, unity and harmony,” she said. Adding; “The government will keep working   together with religious institutions undertaking different social service projects that are beneficial to the believers and Tanzanians at large”. She also commended the good relations between Tanzania and Oman that have seen implementation of a number of projects that are beneficial for Tanzanians. “Oman has been supporting Tanzania in different projects. Our two countries are good friends, that’s why I have accepted an invitation from the Sultan of Oman who asked me to visit his country,” she said. The head of state also hailed the Istiqaama foundation for implementing the project at higher standards, saying they have set an example for others. “I’m a witness of a number of projects that are being undertaken by this institution, indeed they are of high quality,” she testified. In another development, President Samia asked religious leaders to continue reminding and emphasizing to their followers on the importance of participating in the upcoming Population and Housing Census to be held on August 23 this year. Her remarks were cementing the call that was raised earlier by the Mufti of Tanzania, Sheikh Abubakar Zuber who instructed all the regional Sheikhs and Muslim clerics to continue reminding Muslims to participate in the census. “There are some people who are against it, but I want to assure all Muslims that the Census is allowed even in the holy books, including the Quran,” he said. Adding; “effective participation in the exercise will enable the government to plan development agenda accordingly, let’s support national development”. He also condemned the killing of people, saying it’s against teachings in the religious scriptures and humanity. He reminded Muslim believers and Tanzanians at large to uphold a sense of humanity and respect each other as per the teachings. “These killings are against humanity, we need to take proper actions, including reminding ourselves on how to live peacefully as per the scriptures from the holy book, Quran,” he said. He insisted that committing suicide or taking away other people’s lives shouldn’t be accepted anywhere. Present at the event was the Deputy Ambassador of Oman to Tanzania Dr Salim bin Saif al Harbi who also commended the existing bilateral ties, assuring the commitment to continue taking it further. He said Oman, through its embassy in Tanzania, will continue supporting Tanzania on all development projects and programmes. “Some of the projects include drilling of 30 water wells in different districts and schools across the country, we have also received a request to build a big modern mosque in Dodoma,” he said.  Adding; “Due to the request, Oman is now considering building its culture centre in Dodoma”. Speaking of the just launched Mosque, the Chairman of Istiqaama Tanzania, sheikh Seif bin Seif said the projects began in 2019. “It is capable of carrying 1,000 men and 300 women at one go. Moreover, the building has six madrasa rooms for Muslim children,” he said.