PRESIDENT Samia Samia Suluhu Hassan has urged Tanzanians to fully utilize the arrival of the World Cup trophy in the country as a catalyst for players and football stakeholders to do better in global level competitions. Speaking on Tuesdayat the State House in Dar es Salaam, President Samia said this trophy should inspire the nation to benefit from this opportunity in sports, socially and economically. The Head of State added that it is an honour for the trophy to land in the country before heading to Qatar the country is not among the countries eligible to participate in Qater World Cup. Nine African countries have had a chance to see the World Cup before it heads to Qatar. Four countries are participating while five others are not. Among the countries that have been honoured to see the trophy are Tanzania, Ethiopia, Kenya, South Africa, Morocco, Tunisia, Ghana, Cameroon and Senegal. This is the fourth time the trophy arrives in the country where the last trophy was in 2014. "Exhibiting the World Cup trophy means a lot to our country as Unguu Sulay said, it is economical and social contribution is of a paramount importance to the available opportunities but great to promote our country. This cup will inspire us to use this opportunity to benefit our nation. I know the whole world will be watching the entire event; as we live, this should be a great opportunity to announce our country." President Samia encouraged Tanzanians to turn out in large numbers today at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to watch the World Cup trophy. "This is a special day to witness the World Cup trophy in the country. I'm glad to see Juliano Belletti, who won the World Cup. Most youth will be excited to see the trophy and get a souvenir photo with it at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. "The youth and women’s teams have been doing well in sports, but the finals have been poor. This trophy should encourage us and prepare our youth to do better," she said. She further noted she went to Qatar, and they notified her there is a group of Tanzanians. She, therefore, urged Tanzanians to go and provide legal services in Qatar as there are plenty of opportunities in Qatar. The Brazilian football legend Juliano Belletti handed over the trophy to President Samia at the State House and was witnessed by Ambassador of the State of Qatar to Tanzania Hussein bin Ahmed Al Hamid and the Managing Director for Coca-Cola kwanza, Unguu Sulay. Other delegates were the Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports, Mohamedi Mchengerwa, his deputy Pauline Gekul and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Hassan Abbasi. Moreover, President Samia commended the Ministry of Sports to ensuring he gets a chance to host the CAF summit in August this year and use the opportunity to promote the country and trade.