TANZANIA is one of the East African Community (EAC) partner states that have expressed their intention of hosting the much-awaited East African Monetary Institute (EAMI). Taking stock of his first year in office, EAC Secretary General, Dr Peter Mathuki mentioned Tanzania as one of the member states willing to host EAMI, which is the precursor to the East African Central Bank. Other countries according to Dr Mathuki include Burundi, Kenya and Uganda adding that the four have expressed interest and submitted their applications to host the Institute. “A verification Committee undertook a verification mission to the partner states that have applied to host EAMI, to verify their suitability, and compiled a report that will be tabled before the 42nd meeting of the Council of Ministers scheduled for later this month,” said the secretary general here last week. The operationalisation of EAMI effectively sets the EAC on a journey towards the single currency by 2024, as envisaged in the East African Monetary Union Protocol. The Council at its 40th meeting further directed the EAC Secretariat to convene a meeting of the Sectoral Council of Finance and Economic Affairs to develop EAMI institutional structure by September 30, 2021, something that has already been done. EAMI is a transitional mechanism to the East African Central Bank that will issue the single currency that is expected to be in place by the year 2024. On the EAC Political Federation, Dr Mathuki revealed that national consultations for the drafting of the EAC Political Confederation Constitution have so far been held in Burundi and Uganda, and plans are at an advanced stage to hold similar consultations in Tanzania, Rwanda, Kenya and South Sudan in the 2022/2023 Financial Year. In highlighting the challenges faced by the Community in the last one year, the Secretary General pronounced the Covid-19 pandemic as a major challenge. “The Covid-19 pandemic grossly affected the implementation of the Community’s activities, projects and programmes,” said Dr Mathuki. The Secretary General also noted that efforts were underway to ensure the conclusion of the process of developing a sustainable funding mechanism for the Community. “The conclusion of the sustainable funding mechanism will address the financial challenges that the Community is experiencing, as we continue to engage with development partners to support EAC projects and programs,” he added. Deepening economic integration, strengthening regional peace and security mechanisms, and implementing the road map for the attainment of the EAC Monetary Union are some of Dr Mathuki’s key priorities in steering the regional integration agenda in the next year. Meanwhile, the EAC on Tuesday played host to the second Coordination Meeting of the Heads of the Regional Economic Communities (RECs) on the Implementation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) at its Arusha headquarters. The overall objective of the meeting is to prepare actionable strategies towards enhancing the effective implementation of the AfCFTA, drawing on lessons from the implementation of RECs’ Free Trade Areas (FTAs) and Customs Unions. The high-level coordination meeting among others; would consider steps towards the start of commercially meaningful trade under the AfCFTA; finalise the Framework for Collaboration on the implementation of the AfCFTA; and discuss innovative frameworks for resources mobilisation towards the implementation of the AfCFTA. AfCFTA is a Pan-African instrument to boost intra-African trade. It aims at creating a single African market by deepening the economic integration of the continent. AfCFTA will aid the movement of capital and people as well as facilitating investment, thereby moving Africa towards the establishment of a future continental customs union. Accelerating intra-African trade and boosting Africa’s trading position in the global market by strengthening Africa’s common voice and policy space in global trade negotiations is being facilitated in the EAC with EAC-GIZ support. It is an ambitious trade pact to form the world’s largest free trade area by connecting almost 1.3 billion people across 54 African countries. The agreement was brokered by the African Union (AU) and was signed by 44 of its 55 member states in Kigali, Rwanda on March 21, 2018.