ENVIRONMENTAL activists have collected 3.5 tonnes of solid waste at Kunduchi beach in Dar es Salaam in a single day. The level of garbage polluting the beaches and seas compelled the activists to call members of the public to be vigilant in protecting beach areas from solid wastes. “The members of the public to actively take part in protecting beaches from solid wastes which endangers economic activities,” said Mr Bahati Mayoma, an assistant lecture at the University of Dar es salaam (UDSM). Mr Mayoma was speaking on the situations of beach wastes on Wednesday when the world commemorates World Oceans Day. He said that littering beaches and oceans impede efforts to tap blue economy potential as they affect marine life and other beach activities like tourism and recreation which are the sources of livelihood to many people. Mr Mayoma said that most of the wastes collects in the clean-up campaign were household daily uses items, an indication that the campaign of creating awareness was far from reached. “The collected solid garbage at the beach vicinity includes pieces of clothes, shoes, plastics, pharmaceutical waste and carpets. “The nature of wastes have adverse effects to beach environment and marine life and hence, deteriorate efforts of blue economy tapping activities,” he said. The Head of Department of UDSM’s School of Aquatic Sciences and Fisheries Technology, Dr Blandina Lugendo, said that some researchers have shown that a large number of fish were contaminated with some plastic particles. “Cleanliness of ocean water begins with an individual person. Let us protect our economy, health and our future by not throwing solid wastes into the oceans,” Dr Blandina said. Most residents of Dar, Tanga, Mtwara and Lindi are depending on beach which runs 1,420 km long shoreline of Indian Ocean for survival. It is estimated that 40 million people will be employed by ocean-based industries by 2030. The world is currently striving to achieve Sustainable Development Goals number 14 which focuses on conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and marine resources.