THE Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) is holding a nurse working with Kariakoo Dispensary, Salum Mpangula, for allegedly trafficking in 174.77 Kilogrammes of Heroin, which are dangerous narcotic drugs. DCEA Commissioner General Gerald Kusaya told a press conference in Dar es Salaam on Friday that the huge consignment was impounded on May 12, 2022 at the suspect’s house located at Tabata Relini area in Ilala District in the city of Dar es Salaam. He explained that following a search of the suspect's home, 162 packets of powder suspected to be narcotic drugs were found in six sacks stored in the bed room while one packet of the powder was placed in a black nylon bag and hidden under a bed. “A scientific investigation report from the Chief Government Chemist confirmed that all 163 packets were heroin weighing 174.77 kilogrammes in total. The suspect will be taken to court once the legal proceedings are completed,” the Commissioner General said. In addition, General Kusaya noted that between January and May, 2022, the Authority seized a total of 877.217 kilogrammes of drugs and prevented the importation of 122,047.085 kilogrammes and 85 litres of illegal chemical precursors in the country. The drugs, according to him, are 174.112 kilogrammes of heroin involving two suspects and 703.105 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa commonly known as bhang involving six suspects who have all been brought to court to face the charges. Likewise, DCEA boss said that the Authority continues to conduct investigations to track people who violate rules by importing and distributing chemical precursors and drugs to prevent diversions. He pointed out that during the same period, through the electronic Pen-Online System, the Authority   prevented the importation of the drugs and 85 litres of the chemical precursors. General Kusaya said that the Authority has also destroyed a total of 21 hectares of cannabis plantations in Arumeru and Monduli Districts in Arusha region and 250.7 kilogrammes of heroin and Cocaine whose cases have been completed in court. He revealed that the disposal of such dangerous drugs took place legally at the Dangote cement factory in Mtwara region. The Authority’s chief used the occasion to remind the public that on June 26 each year Tanzania joins other nations in celebrating International Anti-Drug Day with a view to raising public awareness and encourage people to participate in the fight against drugs use and trafficking. “This year’s national celebrations will be held in Dar es Salaam at Mnazi Mmoja grounds during which Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa is expected to be the chief guest. The climax of the event will be held on Saturday, July 2, 2022,” he said. General Kusaya cited the theme of the celebration as “Tackling the drug challenges for social welfare.”  He said that this year's celebration will start from June 30 with the provision of education and demonstrations of various regulatory activities conducted by stakeholders. He appealed to the public to participate in the celebrations during which they will be sensitised on the problem of drugs abuse. The Authority has developed guidelines that would be used for sensitisation purpose.