PRIVATE and public institutions in addition to Tanzanians from all walks of life, particularly those in Lindi and Mtwara regions, are set for mobilisation to reap on benefits to be accrued from the envisaged 70tri/- Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project in Lindi Region. The multi-billion project whose initial Host Government Agreement (HGA) was signed and witnessed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the Chamwino State House in Dodoma on Saturday, is expected to create 10,000 direct jobs during its construction and 600 more once it becomes operational. There will also be an industrial park and Special Economic Zone (SEZ) at the site of the project, which will be constructed at Likong’o and MtoMkavu villages in Lindi Municipality. In her speech during the signing ceremony, President Samia highlighted a number of socio-economic benefits that Tanzania will get during and after implementation of the scheme, including 7tri/- from domestically sourced goods and services in its chain. The signing of the agreement opens the doors for discussion on other areas, especially in December this year when the government expects to ink the second HGA deal, besides the final investment decision expected to be reached in 2025, according to the president. Reacting to the development during a telephone interview with ‘Daily News’ yesterday, a board member of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Mr Octavian Mshiru, said the apex body of private sector is out to mobilise its members and ordinary citizens to explore opportunities from the LNG project. “We have had a lot of experience on oil and gas projects from the East African Crude Oil Pipeline and this will enable us to mobilise our people to benefit from the LNG project,” Mr Mshiru, who doubles as TPSF’s Chairman of Service Cluster, remarked. Mr Mshiru was hopeful that the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) will work closely with TPSF to prepare industry players and ordinary citizens on the whole value-chain in implementation of the mega project. “We at TPSF congratulate President Samia for the progress which has been registered just one year after she assumed office, for this project that has been dilly-dallying for almost six years,” he observed.  Mr Mshiru noted further that the apex body seeks to partner with vocational training colleges to produce technicians who will work on the project. So far, Tanzania has proven natural gas reserves of 57.54 trillion cubic feet (tcf) out of which, 47.13tcf are offshore the Indian Ocean, while the remaining 10.41tcf are onshore. Commenting on the signing of the HGA, the Commissioner of Insurance at Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), Dr Baghayo Saqware, said the inking of the agreement was an opportunity for local insurance companies. “Insurance players will fully participate in maximising potential of the project through formation of consortium of companies to offer insurance cover for some segments of the project,” he stated.  Dr Saqware elaborated that insurance companies in Tanzania have been forming consortium to extend insurance cover for large scale and high-risk projects like Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and aviation industry. An economist-cum-investment banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, however decried what he described as lack of local content in financing of such projects, noting that there is a need to empower local financial institutions to be able to finance some components of such multi-billion projects. “The funding of the project will be sourced externally and thus if the prices of natural gas in the world market increases, then it would be the foreign financiers who will benefit but this would have been different if local banks were involved,” he commented. Nevertheless, Dr Shayo welcomed the signing of the HGA as a right move at the time when the world is grappling with shortage of natural gas due to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. “There is uncertainty on availability of the energy globally and thus the signing of the agreement is an advantage to us much as its benefits will be realised in the future after completion of the LNG project,” the expert explained. For his part, the Executive Director of Catalyst Organisation for Health Equity and Social Development, Dr Boniphace Idindili, said the timing of signing of the HGA was appropriate at a time when the world is facing a crisis of natural gas shortage.  “What we need to do right now is to fast-track production, solid management of the project and do away with unnecessary bureaucracies, which may frustrate investors,” he advised. Dr Idindili further cautioned against political interference in implementation of the project, noting that its execution should be guided by rules and regulations of Tanzania to ensure accountability. The medical doctor-cum-economist as well warned against middlemen in implementation of such projects whom he blamed for deterring smooth operations.