SIMBA have disclosed that two coaches have succeeded to enter into the final round of interviews seeking the team's navigation seat and that the successful one is set to be announced soon. The former champions face Mtibwa Sugar in a solo Premier League match to wind up the 28th round of the contest at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Coincidentally, it happens to be their last home match of the campaign as they expect to travel to Mbeya and Songea to play Tanzania Prisons and Mbeya Kwanza in their last two matches of the season. The game is also set to bid farewell to the team's center-back Pascal Wawa whose contract expires at the end of this month hence he will not be part of the travelling squad outside the city. However, giving a brief update on how the club's search of the new coach is progressing, its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Barbara Gonzalez narrated that so far, two coaches have made it into the last round and the winner will be named soon. "Our target is to hire a qualified coach who will be able to take us further and I am glad that we are too close in declaring him because soon, he will be named," she said. Elaborating on the newly signed striker Moses Phiri, the CEO admitted that it was not easy to win his signature as he was being hunted by many clubs as such; she is pleased to see him at last in the squad. Phiri has become the first foreign player to land at Simba ahead of the next season as the club wants to solve scoring woes they have experienced in the elapsing campaign and the player has already been described as an asset for the Msimbazi street giants. About the future of Bernard Morrison, Gonzalez revealed that so far, the Ghanaian is still their legal player until his contract expires that is when they will make a fresh statement regarding him. She also reiterated that they expect to sign many quality players who can help the club reach into the semifinals of CAF Champions League (CAF CL) next season. Concerning where they plan to pitch pre-season camp, she replied that the destination will be announced soon and while there, they will announce which clubs they will engage for friendly duels. So far, Simba is under the tutelage of Assistant Coach Selemani Matola who is looking for a third successive victory at its helm if they manage to win today's encounter. He started with a 3-0 win against Mbeya City before stamping a 3-1 victory versus KMC and the outcome of Mtibwa Sugar encounter will be transpired at the sound of the final whistle.