PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has demanded personal secretaries in public service to uphold confidentiality, professionalism and integrity while discharging their duties. The President also insisted on punctuality among personal secretaries so as to meet their targets, a move that would help the government deliver services to the public accordingly. The Head of State made the statement yesterday while gracing the 9th Annual Conference of the Tanzania Personal Secretaries Association (TAPSEA) held at Jakaya Kikwete Convention Center (JKCC) in Dodoma. She said personal secretaries have a crucial role to play in the performance of public institutions and that country’s development depends on their punctuality. “You have to keep secrets that come to your desks, this is so important for the safety of your bosses and the government at large, all the success starts from your performance,” she insisted. President Samia said the lack of integrity, honesty and ability to keep secrets were among deficiencies that would disqualify personal secretaries from serving in the public sector. She insisted on the need for the secretaries to continue working hard for the sake of protecting and maintaining the image of the institutions they are working for, as well as facilitating the attainment of national development. President Samia also instructed for the upgrading of the Tanzania Public Service College (TPSC) Tabora campus, for it to become the centre of excellence in producing personal secretaries, who will be absorbed in different government ministries and institutions. She said, after completing their studies, the graduates will be under the President's Office, Public Services Management and Good Governance Ministry for mentorship before being dispatched to other institutions. The ministry will serve as the pool for preparing the high qualified personal secretaries in the country. “This is vital in upgrading the cadre for greater interest in the government's performance especially in delivering services to the public,” she said. The Head of State also instructed the Minister of State, President’s Office, Public Services Management and Good Government Jenista Mhagama to work on the TAPSEA’s concerns regarding promotions and payment of arrears. She also assured of the government’s commitment to work on challenges facing the association, whose members play a vital role in facilitating national development by assisting their bosses to discharge their duties. In another development, President Samia accepted the request of being matron of the TAPSEA, for the sake to help in addressing challenges facing the association. She reached the decision after observing the commitment of TAPSEA members to work diligently in response to various directives being issued by government leaders. “TAPSEA requested me to become its matron in 2017, I hesitated for some reasons… there are instructions that I issued for implementation and I’m glad you have worked on them,” she said. She was impressed with the working morale of the TAPSEA members and hailed them for putting forward national interest. “Since you are hardworking and well-focused, there is a need to be supported, and I’m ready for that, let’s work hard,” noted Ms Samia. TAPSEA was formed and registered since 2008 under the law (The Societies ordinance cap 337 R. E. 2002) for the sake to organise, maintain, enforce, protect the rights, present, and supervise all activities relating to secretarial profession. The purpose and objective for creation of the association was to promote and maintain professionalism, accountability and raise the profile of the secretarial profession.