EAST African Business Council (EABC) has called for the deployment of Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) officials to facilitate pre-arrival clearance of exports at border posts. The EABC Chief Executive, Mr John Bosco Kalisa, said Kenya doing destination clearance of goods at Horohoro One Stop Border Post (OSBP) leads to delays and longer queues of cargo trucks to Kenya. “KRA officials should be posted to the key cities in Tanzania to facilitate the pre-arrival clearance of exports from Tanzania to Kenya to reduce traffic queues at the border,” Mr Kalisa said in a statement yesterday after EABC Trade Facilitation Forum at Horohoro-Lunga Lunga OSBP. Tanzania has already posted Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials in Mombasa and Nairobi to facilitate the pre-arrival clearance of goods under the Single Customs Territory framework. Kenya’s exports to Tanzania for the first quarter January-March 2022 stood at 139.42 million US dollars while imports stood at 118.6 million US dollars, according to Central Bank of Kenya. International Trade Centre data showed that in 2021 Kenya’s exports to Tanzania hit 409.7 million US dollars from 294.9 million US dollars in 2020 while Kenya’s imports from Tanzania stood at 489.8 million US dollars in 2021 up from 258.3 million US dollars in 2020. The pilot running of one-stop border operations at the Horohoro-Lunga Lunga has eased the free movement of goods and persons between Kenya and Tanzania. Thus the number of trucks entering Kenya from Tanzania has increased to 150 per day while 80 cross over into Tanzania daily while on monthly basis increased 3300 from 1500 trucks while exports stand at 1000 respectively thanks to the elimination of Non-Tariff Barriers (NTB). Tanzania's trade volume increase is attributed to coal and maize exports. Mr Sammy Tutua, Chairman of Cross Border Traders in Kenya, called for more sensitisation campaigns for MSMEs on custom procedures and EAC simplified trade regime. In her remarks, Ms Eugenia Mwesiumo, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation  of Tanzania said EAC was more integrated than other regional economic communities in terms of social and trade ties. Dr Juma Wahungu from the Ministry of EAC and Regional Development Kenya commended EABC for rolling out dialogues at the border with the business community in order to resolve trade barriers. The trade facilitation forum was supported by GIZ “Support to East African Market-Driven and People-Centered Integration” programme (SEAMPEC). The traders called for the formation of a committee to oversee the acquittal of motorcycles held at the police stations, seminars on EAC export procedures and access to markets, bank at the OSBP on the Kenya side, and construction of road bumps at the OSBP to reduce accidents. The EABC Forum was attended by over 50 delegates composed of officials from the Ministry of EAC Affairs, trade facilitation agencies, importers, exporters, transporters and freight forwarders and women cross-border traders.