MINISTER for Foreign Affairs' and East African Cooperation, Ambassador Liberata Mulamula has called for concerted efforts among Commonwealth member states to seek permanent solutions to the chronic conflicts and other challenges facing some countries. According to the minister, some Commonwealth countries are facing endless challenges such as war and other forms of insecurity, including weakness on the part of some organs charged with the responsibility of enforcing some issues such as the rule of law. Prof Mulamula said despite efforts being made by Commonwealth members in strengthening democracy, peace and good governance there were still many challenges that needed to be addressed. The minister made the call on Thursday in Kigali, Rwanda at the meeting of the Commonwealth foreign affairs ministers, which was held on the sidelines of the ongoing 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). The ministers’ meeting focused on discussing issues of democracy, peace and good governance. “We, as Commonwealth members have to address our challenges and look for permanent solutions to the challenges facing our countries including endless conflicts, insecurity and the weakness of the organs entrusted to oversee enforcement of the rule of law,” Ambassador Mulamula said. The minister appealed for the efforts by regional and international communities to use diplomatic means to prevent conflicts, urging them to turn to their fundamental principles and values to ensure peace and stability are maintained. In addition, the minister advised members of the community to consider the possibility of using self-assessment procedures applied by other regional and international bodies. Giving an example, the minister said member states could emulate procedures of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) in assessing themselves in implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Recently Tanzania was evaluated by the United Nations Human Rights Council, and through that assessment the country had the opportunity to explain about the good things it carried out about good governance and human rights. The country also had an opportunity to learn from other countries,” the minister said. The minister also reminded other ministers who attended the conference about the programmes designed by the Commonwealth Secretariat and the importance of harmonising, localising and applying them. She mentioned the programmes such as the election support programme that focuses on encouraging member states to conduct free and fair elections, provision of technical assistance in policy formulation, assistance in law reform programmes, and establishment of strong national institutions to oversee human rights issues and build capacity to deliver justice.