TANZANIA Golf Union (TGU) has set a national team camp early next month after the Africa Region 4 golf championship is pushed to the end of July 2022. Formerly known as the East Africa Golf Challenge Trophy, the Africa Region 4 returns to the course after being canceled in the past two years due to the coronavirus threat. The Competition Secretary of Tanzania Golf Union (TGU), Enock Magile said the host Uganda has already informed participants about the postponement of the tournament. “We previously planned to pitch the national team’s camp this month ahead of the Kampala showdown, but the latest changes forced us to push it to early July this year,” he said. However, Magile said the preparation for the tournament is going on well and this time Tanzania targets to bring back the lost glory. He added TGU has already submitted the team’s budget to the National Sports Council (NSC) and they wait for a response from it. The government, through NSC, launched a special sports fund that among others, aims to help national teams’ participation in international competitions. Adding, Magile said Tanzania has a good number of quality players who are capable of bringing back the regional golf trophy. The Golfer of the Year and the last week’s TFS Lugalo Open champion, Isihaka Daudi and the event’s overall runner-up, Victor Joseph of Dar Gymkhana Club, are among the best golfers to represent Tanzania in Kampala golf showdown. Organised by East Africa Golf Federation and the event’s host Uganda, the Region 4 team competition brings together top players from EAC member countries. Tanzania is expected to battle it out with teams from Uganda, Kenya, Burundi, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Sudan, Eritrea, Somalia, Djibouti, Comoros, Mauritius, Seychelles, and Madagascar. The teams will compete in singles match-play battle, foursomes, four-ball round before they climax with another single match-play on the final day. Uganda is the defending champion after collecting aggregate 18.5 points and edged Kenya by a point to win the 16th edition in 2019.