IT has always been expected that mental illness victims either reside in the mental asylum or roam around the streets going from one dump to another in old dirty rags looking for food whilst talking to themselves throughout the way. This old mindset has to change; some mental illness victims do not reside or act like the typical mental illness victims or as they are famously referred to as ‘crazy’. “Mental health is the state of a person’s well-being that enables him to plan, decide and implement something correctly as is customary in his community and contributes to productivity, interacting with people well, etc.” defines Saldin Kimangale, Clinical psychologist Mental illness is a condition characterized by a loss of connection with the environment where the victim loses his or her ability to feel, think, plan, decide and act per his or her normal routine and thus affects his or her performance including productivity, and interaction, etc. There are more than 300 Mental Illnesses in various categories, the most common Diseases are Anxiety Disorders, Emotional Diseases (Depression), Drug Abuse, and Schizophrenia ‘About 1 billion people, including 14% of all young people in the world, were living with a mental illness. ‘ WHO, 2019 This is surely a serious matter to be tackled. Mental illness has triggered if not shaken the world. In the United States, for example, many people are now aware of this issue and know where to seek professional help if they find themselves having mental illness symptoms. However, in Tanzania, most People’s ignorance of mental illness cannot be fathomed rather more education about it should be given to them. It is sometimes misinterpreted as witchcraft by some ignorant Tanzanians, they don’t regard it as a medical condition, and in some instances when being educated about it, they would still shy away from it and further state that ‘it’s a white man’s disease,’ This phrase should only serve as a myth that needs to be debunked. Anyone can experience Mental Health challenges, indicators that show you facing this health challenge include: insomnia, loss of appetite, abnormal body fat, irritability, abnormal forgetfulness, etc. However, these symptoms do not have to co-exist. Mental illnesses have different symptoms depending on the specific mental illness someone suffers from. There are more than 300 diseases, meaning the symptoms will be many, but if you notice a total of the following symptoms it is advisable to see a doctor: consciousness symptoms which include Very negative thinking, seeing things that others do not see, Hearing Sounds that other people do not hear, suicidal thoughts, Believing that there are people who want to harm you. Emotional symptoms include Excessive grief or happiness, Loneliness even if there are people around, an outburst of anger, Feeling life is worthless, Lack of hope, Excessive fatigue, Excessive unreasonable fear or apprehension, and many more. Behavioral symptoms include Insomnia or excessive sleep, Self-harm by burning or cutting oneself or banging one’s head against something, Lack of appetite or overeating, lack of sexual desire, etc. This disease is not discriminatory, Children, adolescents, adults and the elderly are all at risk of developing it. It has no boundaries whether it’s a man or woman, rich or poor, etc. However, those with the genetics of these diseases and those who have experienced violence during childhood or difficult living conditions including war, disasters and accidents are at greater risk. Nevertheless, not everyone who experiences these ordeals will develop a mental illness but if there are environmental stimulants they can make a person at risk of developing a mental illness. There is no single specific cause that can lead to mental illness. Biological factors such as genetics, alcohol and drug use and living with chronic disease. Psychological factors such as childhood isolation, rejection, abuse, and other forms of violence. In addition to that, there are also social causes such as poor upbringing, poor economy, malnutrition, war, disasters, etc. All these can be factors that lead to a person’s mental illness. Many Mental Illnesses are curable, some are modified, especially those that fall into the personality disorder. Depending on the type of illness, and the severity of the illness, the individual may be treated with an interest in medication, oral therapy, occupational therapy, or orthopedic therapy. “Our society lacks awareness about Mental Health and Disease. Unfortunately, even the so-called Psychologists or Psychiatrists have been exposed to inaccurate information, further intimidation, stigma and eventual harm to victims. It is advised that before a person receives therapy or even information, especially from the media to review the person they are receiving information from. Not everyone who calls himself a Psychologist is truly a Psychologist and not every Psychologist deals with Health and Mental Illness just as not every Doctor deals with every patient or every engineer deals with every machine. Even a Teacher isn’t competent in all subjects, thus cannot teach everything. Being the jack of all trades as it will only bring harm to the victims and misinform people.” Says Saldin Kimangale, Clinical psychologist. In the past few weeks, there have been tremendous negative reports on couples killing each other, the main reason being jealousy. Also, child molestation and raping of small children have been at their highest peak. These situations are bizarre and not expected to be done by an adult, but they keep on prevailing. Not all cases of these bizarre events indicate a mental illness, some are just human behaviors. However, some mental illnesses can lead a person to do something like this. If a person can get the idea and strong emotions to end his life what will stop him from attempting to do so? Personality disorders such as Antisocial and Narcissistic Personality Disorders and Diseases like Schizophrenia and Delusional Disorders that tend to hear commands or have a strong belief that someone wants to harm them, then they tend to defend themselves. It is good that we have a system in place to check our mental health, not only in raising our children well but also in educating ourselves on the best way to communicate in solving problems, etc. If we notice a person amongst us has the mentioned indicators and symptoms it is best to advise him or her to seek proper attention from the professionals. ‘Failure to treat it leads to mentally disturbed individuals hence the crime rates in our country. We ought to take care of ourselves, our mental health is very important to protect.’ SWT AFRICA. The author can be reached at 0686261106 and esterlyaruu3@gmail.com