BUMPER entry is expected to light up Lugalo golf course as golfers from six clubs are heading there for Lugalo Open Championship ahead of its tee off next weekend. The two-day tournament is bankrolled by Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS) and will cover 36 holes, according to the organisers, Lugalo Golf Club. The tournament that heads for a tee off on June 18th and 19th, serves as the national level tournament at par 72 course. It will be the first event of Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) in the year 2022 calendar. Lugalo Chairman Michael Luwongo said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that preparation for the two-day golf showdown is almost complete. “Initially the tournament was to be held on June 4th and 5th this year before it was moved forward due to various reasons. “Moving forward the battle has also helped us get a better chance of organising a superior event,” he noted. Luwongo thanked TFS for taking the main sponsor's role while he also commended co-sponsors; Serengeti Breweries, Mohammed Enterprises Tanzania Limited (METL) and Precision Air. The Chairman said TFS has been their supporter as they have been providing great free of charge education on forest conservation and honey cultivation for a while. “Their work is very closely related to golf environmentally so it is a good platfom for them to also educate mass on TFS activities,” he said. Luwongo has called on other companies to look for opportunities like this to advertise themselves through golf as Lugalo is ideal place for that. He unveiled that the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Amos Makala is expected to be the chief guest during the prize giving ceremony. The Head of Tourism Promotion, Anna Lawuo, who spoke on behalf of the TFS Conservation Commissioner Prof Dos Santos Silayo, said they were delighted to partner with the TPDF Lugalo Club in various issues. “It’s third time we are involved with Lugalo Club’s golf activities though this time around they have given us an opportunity to be main sponsors and take role of the tournament’s title.