TANZANIA is seeking support from International Telecommunication Union (ITU) member states to be elected to the ITU Council. The election will be held during the ITU General Assembly in Bucharest, Romania, in September this year. This was revealed by the Director General of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Dr Jabiri Bakari at the ongoing International Telecommunication Union World Development Conference (ITU WTDC - 2022), which is being held in Kigali, Rwanda. Dr Bakari emphasised that TCRA is committed to keeping pace with technological change by ensuring that it collaborates with other countries around the world to embrace and implement significant Information and Communication Technology (ICT) reforms. “Our goal is for this conference to help TCRA and, more importantly, our country understand the global telecommunications and ICT sectors so that we, as a country, are not left behind and ensure we keep up with such developments. You will agree that the ICT sector is rapidly expanding, and we want to be a part of it,” elaborated Dr Bakari. Delegates to the conference are convening to discuss and set development plans for the global telecommunications sector, specifically plans for connecting the unreached with telecommunications services. The conference, organised by the United Nations Communications Agency (ITU), is being held in Africa for the first time. Every four years, the ITU organises the WTDC through its Communications Development department to receive various topics, discuss the implementation of projects and programmes important for global communication development, and focus on the growth of the global telecommunications industry. Furthermore, the conference is the ITU’s highest policy-making body, which also approves four-year strategic and financial plans and selects a team of senior executives from the organisation, Tanzania’s delegation in the conference is headed by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology, Dr Jim Yonazi. Tanzania, as an active member of the ITU and participant to the conference, will take advantage of the opportunity to seek support from ITU member states for election to the ITU Council at the ITU General Assembly in Bucharest. Tanzania will seek election to the ITU Council at the September Plenipotentiary Summit in Bucharest, owing to the fact that it has become a hub for connecting countries off the coast of the Indian Ocean to the communication channel via the sea. It has also aided ICT reforms in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region and Sub-Saharan Africa. As a result, the message to the Council will be to defend the interests of the African continent, particularly SubSaharan Africa, in ICT development. Tanzania currently provides ICT-based infrastructure solutions to the neighboring countries of Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi, and Kenya, with plans to expand to include the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and other landlocked countries in the region. Commenting on the role of Tanzania in transforming the ICT sector in the African region, the Communications and Technology Resource Manager of TCRA, Engineer Mwesiga Felician noted that Tanzania is involved committedly in all global matters that involve making various resolutions for the development of the telecommunications and ICT sectors in the world. He expressed hopes to take advantage of the conference in Rwanda to seek support to be voted into ITU. “Our goal is to make sure we use the opportunity of this conference to request support from our regional member states to endorse our country to be elected into the ITU Council during the General Assembly in September this year. “This is an opportunity to increase our influence in promoting ICT in this region of Africa as we endeavor to build a digital economy,” Mr Felician said, adding that Tanzania’s participation in the conference will help the country to become an ICT influential country in the region.