FINANCE and Planning Minister, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba reassured the private sector of full and strong cooperation on common efforts to reform financial policies in order to broaden the tax base. The minister underscored the government’s commitment to create an environment that is friendly to investments and business. He told reporters here at the end of the 13th Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) meeting earlier this week that the meeting was a very successful one, because the debate was healthy and delegates gave very pertinent and useful recommendations that will help the government to broaden the tax base. “For us in the ministry we shall continue to work on the recommendations made by a team of experts on how to broaden the tax base by making sure we have friendly tax policies in place,” he pledged, adding that Tanzanians will simultaneously be educated on the importance of registering their businesses and paying right and proper taxes. Dr Nchemba said such education is necessary to make Tanzanians appreciate their patriotic duty of paying taxes willingly, taxes that he said will enable the government to build an enabling physical infrastructure and promote national development. “Good predictable tax policies will make people start more businesses, they will attract new investors, and therefore broaden our tax base,” he explained, adding that the government is open to recommendations that will help put in place enabling policies that will promote economic growth. He praised the TNBC Executive Committee for ensuring the meeting was attended by many capable delegates from the private and public sectors who aired useful views and made good recommendations. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan directed us to ensure our ministry has a team of experts for implementing practically all resolutions made by the meeting. We are going to do exactly that without delay,” he promised. The Union president is the automatic chairman of TNBC meetings. The TNBC Executive Committee Secretary, Dr Godwill Wanga said the meeting was successful, because all the items on the agenda were discussed well with the aim of building an all-inclusive strong economy. “One of the major resolutions called for putting in place a tax policy that is predictable in order to attract more people into doing legal business and attract more investors into our country. The more the investors and more people doing legal business, the greater the tax base and therefore bigger base collecting public revenue,” he said. The 13th TNBC meeting was yet another annual and important forum for discussing ways of improving the investment and business environment in Tanzania.