SIMBA’S caretaker coach Selemani Matola has urged Tanzania players to emulate the diligence of the team’s outgoing defender Pascal Wawa who has been released after the expiry of his contract. THE Ivorian defender played his last premier league match for Simba on Thursday night when the Reds defeated Mtibwa Sugar 2-0 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam as they aim to end the season with high tone. He has become the second player to leave the club after the departure of Larry Bwalya who has joined the South African side, Amazulu. Simba are painstakingly seeking to reconstruct their squad. “I think Tanzania players should learn a lot from Wawa. He has left behind a big mark not only for Simba but also at Azam where he served before joining us. He is a well-disciplined player whose performance remains constant despite age catching up against him. “We will miss him because he is a person who jokes with anybody and he is very friendly. As such; we wish him all the best wherever he goes to pursue his next footballing chapter,” he said. Commenting on the match itself, Matola hailed his players for their dedicated efforts throughout the game while acknowledging that Mtibwa Sugar gave them a tough duel. “Whenever the two teams meet, the match is always difficult but I am thankful to the players for their remarkable workrate. I think we are going to apply the same chemistry in all our remaining matches,” he said. Highlighting about Pape Sakho and Peter Banda recent epic forms who also netted the two goals on the day, Matola replied that he gave them a free role to play hence the reason for their performances to improve. “They like to be given free roles other than restricting them as such; you saw that they are enjoying the game,” said Matola who has won all their recent three games he has been at the helm of the club. Up next, Simba will play Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya tomorrow before winding up their season’s fixture against Mbeya Kwanza at Majimaji Stadium in Songea on Wednesday. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar Assistant Coach Awadh Juma said minor mistakes they committed on the day led them to concede defeat while pledging to correct the shortfalls ahead of their remaining two matches. “It was a good game, we came with a plan to win but at the end, what we expected was contrary to what transpired at the end of playing time. We need to win our last two matches to compensate today’s (Thursday) loss,” he said. The Morogoro-based team is placed 12th on the table with 31 points and they will play Namungo tomorrow at Manungu Complex before coming back to Dar es Salaam to face champions Young Africans on Wednesday.