THE Parliamentary Committee for Energy and Minerals has directed China Railway Construction Electrification Bureau Group (CRCEBG) to make sure that electricity projects under the Rural Energy Authority (REA) Phase III in Mkuranga district are completed as per agreement. The directives were issued on Tuesday by the committee members led by its Chairman Mr Dunstan Kitandula during their tour to inspect ongoing power projects in Mkuranga district. The MPs were accompanied by   Minister for Energy January Makamba. Mr Kitandula who is also a Member of Parliament for Mkinga and other committee members were reacting to a report presented to   them by REA Director General Hassan Said on the progress of power projects being implemented in the district. In his report, Mr Said that REA phase III Round 2 projects which were launched in August,   last year whereby a total of   and 179 villages out of 125 villages in the district equivalent to 63 percent have been connected to power as well as 221 streets out of 476 which is equivalent to 44 percent as project is scheduled to be completed by December this year. The DG mentioned some of the challenges  facing the projects as poor response from the respective communities as some of  the areas  cannot be easily  accessed due to  poor roads infrastructure,  sabotage,  theft  and rising  prices of electricity equipment. One of the committee members Eng Stella Manyanya who is also an MP for Nyasa advised the contractor to use se quality poles to make the project durable. She also advised REA team to work closely with the residents in all stages of the project including wiring to help them to buy quality equipment. Minister Makamba for his part, said that the government is committed to ensure that all  the remaining villages and streets  are  reached with the service. "Our government through this Ministry will make sure that all REA III projects are being implemented and completed on agreed time to enable people conduct various activities which need power. At Mingombe village in Njianne ward, the committee members, Minister Makamba and district leaders had a chance to meet with the residents who expressed their gratitude after their village has been connected to power. Njianne Ward, Ally Mohammed expressed gratitude to the government for its commitment   to ensure that   the villagers are able to access electricity. "We are so glad that now we have electricity and we are able to do businesses which depend on electricity and earn income ", he said. A total of 37. 4bn/- has been allocated for the projects in Coast Region whereby a sum of 8.2bn/- has been allocated for Mkuranga District.