PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said the government will continue to develop project management systems and closely monitor the implementation of its budget to ensure that the available resources may be productive for Tanzanians' welfare. “We will continue to address key priorities, including strategic projects implementation in line with the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) 2020 election manifesto,” he said. He made the remarks in Dodoma on Friday while officiating the parliamentary session on the National Development Plan and Budget Ceiling for 2022/2023. The Premier further said it was the intention of President Samia Suluhu Hassan to see that the budget ceiling does not affect the implementation of the National Development Plan in line with the activities planned for the year 2022/2023. “We are all aware that our country is now in a middle-income economy which is a sign of increasing national capacity to offer essential services to the people as well as the increasing capacity of citizens to afford their needs,” he noted. Mr Majaliwa also used the platform to issue a report on the implementation of the Conservation of Ngorongoro area whereby he said the government has continued to monitor the issue very closely, including holding talks with the people and leaders of those areas to ensure they get an adequate understanding based on advice issued by members of Parliament. “We have made great efforts to educate them, explain the significance of conservation and we had an opportunity to meet with more than 350 Maasai traditional leaders known as Laigwanans and they have pledged to cooperate in finding a permanent solution in all challenging areas,” Mr Majaliwa remarked He said so far, the government has received a list of the names of the first batch of 86 households with 453 people who have voluntarily agreed to leave the Ngorongoro Conservation Area while others continuing to register their names. “The government has set aside 400,000 hectares in the central areas of Handeni, Kilindi, Kiteto and Simanjiro districts of which 220,000 hectares have already been surveyed. Every person will be given a three-hectares site to build a house and have a grazing area which has a good climate and can feed livestock throughout the rainy and dry season,” he said. The PM has called on politicians outside the Ngorongoro Conservation Area to let the government talk to the people in those areas so that the education and mobilization of those who want to move voluntarily can go on well without being pressured by anyone and those who are willing to move are not restrained. For his part, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba said that the economic situation in the country has continued to improve, whereby from September 2020 to January 2021, the national economy grew from 4.9 per cent compared to 4.8 per cent in the same period in 2020. “The continued recovery of the economy as a whole is a result of the sixth phase government taking various efforts, including improving the investment and business environment, especially the political will to negotiate with local and foreign investors,” Dr Nchemba said He further said, the project for the construction of Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) which will produce about 2,115 megawatts has reached 55 per cent completion and construction activities are ongoing, also other construction projects such as the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project as well as the construction of the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP) are in good progress.