Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT)’s plan of building up a  37bn/- worth regional flagship ICT Center (RAFIC) will be executed from July, this year. DIT Principal Prof Preksedis Ndomba revealed this in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday during the signing of an agreement with Arqes Africa Architects and Interior Design Ltd for designing  700m/- worth  architecture design of the infrastructure. Prof Ndomba said that the signed  agreement will include developing a DIT Master Plan for the Dar es Salaam Central Campus,  designing the buildings of the ICT center and  supervising the contractor during construction. “Today, we have entered an agreement for developing architecture design valued at 756,539,200/- this is after DIT has assured itself that Arqes Africa Architects and Interior Design Ltd which won the tender has demonstrated expertise  in this area and will ultimately provide  drawings that will give us a dignified building whose completeness will help us run RAFIC project,” he said. Prof Ndomba said that the architecture designs will pave the way for the construction of a 10 storey smart building which will be used as a center of excellence for the East African community member states. He explained that the building will encompass 10 different laboratories with modern ICT tools which will be used for offering training in cyber security which is vital for the running digital economy. “This building will be able to accommodate approximately 1,500 people including staff and local as well as foreign students. So I want the contractor to have this work done in a shortest time possible to pave way for construction work to start by month of July,” he said. For his part, Arch Lazaro Peter, the executive director of  Arqes Africa Architects and Interior Design Ltd, assured that his company will execute  the the task within a set timeframe and by observing set professional requirements. “We will do this job within set time frame as we have qualified manpowers with capacity of carrying out this job fastest possible,” the Architect said.