POLITICIANS and academicians have expressed high expectations with the establishment of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School in Kibaha town, Coast region saying that it will stimulate economic liberation in Africa. They said African countries need such a school so as to have leaders with positive visions in the world of science and technological development. Speaking this week during a programme aired by Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation Chairman, Mr Joseph Butiku said that the school will help to teach young generation not only liberations works and their basis but also the second phase liberation that focuses on economy. On his part, Mr Wilson Mukama, the former ruling party CCM Secretary General said that despite its importance, the school has not been constructed in the country accidentally but it is due to the country's contribution in liberation struggle in Africa by being among the frontline states. Prof Shadrack Mwakalila a Rector from Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Academy advised other political parties to grab the opportunities available at the school to prepare their leaders, who among others, will be trained on patriotism and leadership. “I  was among the people who the witnessed  the laying of a  foundation stone of this  school by  the late President (John) Magufuli... the then  late Magufuli  said that we expect this school to enroll  even people from  the opposition parties …therefore good leadership is for all,” Prof Mwakalila insisted. University of Dar es Salaam lecturer, Dr Richard Mbunda commended the six political parties for joining forces to establish the school in collaboration with the Chinese Communist Party (CPC). The $45m project has been funded by the Chinese government under the Communist Party of China (CPC) and CCM. Other parties played key roles in independence struggles and joined in the project are African National Congress (South Africa), The South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO, Namibia), Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola (MPLA),  Zanu-PF (Zimbabwe) and Frelimo (Mozambique). On February 23 this year President Samia Suluhu Hassan launched the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School saying the institution would play a pivotal role in the modernization of parties participated in the liberation struggles in the Southern part of Africa. The Head of State said the institution will be preparing leaders to be ethical and capable of taking part in the modification of the six parties that took place in liberating some African countries which were under colonial rule.