THE Minister for Defense and National Service, Dr Stergomena Tax has vowed to work on the existing land disputes between Tanzania People Defense Force (TPDF) and neighboring civilians. She made the promise yesterday here during her visit to the Kisakasaka area in Unguja West B district, the area with ownership disputes, saying the government will end the matter. “We have to end these disputes, the army is owned by all Tanzanians, these for we need to have peace and harmony,” said the minister. Speaking to the villagers from three Shehias surrounding Kisakasaka barracks, Dr Tax urged members of the community to provide full cooperation in finding solutions to the existing challenges. According to her, the government is always ready to cooperate with its citizens on solving the disputes between TPDF and members of the public. “And we have to use dialogue and the best model in reaching a consensus for the greater interest of mutual understanding that has existed between the government through the army and members of the public,” noted the minister. She was of the view that ending land disputes between TPDF and the surrounding communities is among the key priorities that her ministry is working on. In so doing, she said the government will pay compensation to those who will have to vacate their area to enable smooth operations of the military in its training. “So far, a total of 83 areas have been identified for further evaluation before final decision is made, all people who will have to vacate will be compensated accordingly,” she assured. Her statement was cemented by the head of Kisakasaka command Lieutenant Colonel Yenu Mgugule who said the compensation will be issued within a short time after completion of evaluation exercise. We want to maintain good relationship that have existed for a long time between army and the general public He commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan and Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi for their tireless efforts in maintaining national unity, peace and solidarity.