SIMBA have disclosed that the future of Head Coach Pablo Franco will be debatable if he fails to navigate the team into the quarterfinals of CAF Confederation Cup. The Msimabzi Street Reds face US Gendarmerie at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday in their final group stage match of the competition which will define their destiny in the unfolding campaign. The two teams meet in a reverse game after the first leg duel ended in a 1-1 draw and it was the only match that Simba managed to get an away point. In his words yesterday in the city, the club's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally admitted that if they do not make it into the last eight, the management will assess Pablo's future. "As a club, we set up our targets with the coach of reaching into the semifinals of the confederation cup hence if we fail to step into the quarters, he will be tasked to explain why the team did not make it. "Afterwards, the management will make its decision but in accordance with the level of performance the team is displaying under Pablo's tutelage, the club has much trust in him such that he fails to achieve the intended goals he can continue to be at the helm of the team," Ally said. He continued: "If you look at the way Simba are playing, you can easily forecast a bright future for the club as such; we have no doubt with him but the targets we put forward is to slide into the confederation cup semis." Elaborating about Sunday's important match, Ally said they are aware that a win over USGN will be a deserved gift to all Tanzanians as such; players are ready to fight. "This is a big week for us because we have a very important match coming up of which we need nothing less than a triumph. Beating them will be a great thing for the club and country as a whole," said him. On his part, playmaker Bernard Morrison said they have no pressure at all when it comes to making it to the last eight stage of the contest, and urged Simba fans to descend at the venue to witness it. "We have a tough task on Sunday and we are going to work hard with no pressure in order to stand a chance of stepping into the quarterfinals. Everyone should come to the stadium to be part of this great experience," he said. The Msimbazi Street giants will be searching to maintain their unbeaten home record in the progressing confederation cup group stage after outclassing ASEC Mimosas (3-1) and RSB Berkane (1-0) respectively at the 60,000 capacity venue. As it stands in group D, ASEC Mimosas lead the race with 9 points followed by RS Berkane who have pocketed 7 points while Simba are third-placed with 7 points whereas USGN sit at the bottom with 5 points in the bag.