A breath of fresh air is blowing through the business community as President Samia Suluhu Hassan marks one year in office. The business environment improved considerably, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) restored good relations with the business community and the government continued with improvements in the business regulatory framework. Before President Samia was sworn-in to office, businesses complained about hostility in tax collection methods driving many firms to close business. One of President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s early appointees was the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Commissioner General, Alphayo Kidata, who was Regional Administrative Secretary for Mtwara. President Samia directed the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to stop frustrating businesses by milking them dry and instead expand the tax base to raise monthly revenue collections to 2.0tri/- from an average of 1.4tri/-. She had also replaced the then Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Dotto James with Emmanuel Tutuba as new Treasury Permanent Secretary. Evidently, tax collected last December was historically higher, at over 2.51tri/- which was 220bn/- more as compared to the 2.29tri/- forecasts despite Covid-19 pandemic. The picture of the revenue collection signifies that the budget implementation, which is the first for President Samia, will reach top marks. In the first half of this fiscal year, TRA has collected 98 per cent of its target, equals 11.11tri/- out of 11.302tri/- forecasts between July and December last year. Also, the amount collected is 20.2 per cent increase in comparison to 2020/21. Alpha Capital Head of Research and Financial Analytic, Imani Muhingo, said the first improvement President Samia made was on the relationship between TRA and the business community. “Initially TRA were a bit too stringent with business closures and collection methods, correcting that have been an encouragement for further capital expenditure by businessmen and women,” Mr Muhingo said. The second area was in dealing with Covid-19. Implementation of Covid measures and vaccine programmes was a brilliant business move regardless of one's stance on the whole Covid-19 issue. “The measures have allowed President Samia to take advantage of soft loans and grants provided by multilateral organizations and have also regained confidence of foreign investors,” Muhingo said. President Samia's approach in dealing with Covid-19 pandemic touched the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and approved 567.25 million US dollars (1.304tri/-) loan to enable the country to cushion the impact of the coronavirus, following the collapse of the tourism sector. The Fund approval was 100 per cent of the county quota under two facilities—Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) and Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI)—to help finance the urgent balance of payment needs, stemming from the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The third area is improved diplomacy which has gained significant injections from international financial institutions, developed nations as well as foreign investors. Tanzania secured 1.15tri/- from the European Commission to fund various development projects after President Samia toured France and Belgium last month. The fourth area is the push for injection of liquidity into the economy through various means including launching a facility at the Bank of Tanzania (BoT), pushing for lower lending rates and increased expenditure on local projects that have less demand for imported capital goods. Last December credit to the private sector grew by 10 which was the highest growth since December 2019. The bull trend on the equities market was already charging prior to President Samia taking the seat, but the ease of the business environment might have fuelled the upswing. The most bullish counters are CRDB Bank and NMB Bank which have seen significant profit growth since 2019. “Despite the current bullish trend and improvement in the business environment, the challenges of the equity market still persist, masked now by a sugar-coat of impressive performance of a handful of counters,” Mr Muhingo said.  Comparing Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) market turnover for the first quarter of this year—with a month to go—the total turnover grew by 20.23 per cent to 28bn/- from 23.30bn/- to the entire quarter of last year. Total market capitalization increased by 6.86 per cent from 15.30bn/- to 16.35bn/- while domestic market capitalization increased from 9.2bn/- in last year to 10bn/-. Vertex International Securities, Advisory and Capital Markets Manager, Ahmed Nganya said President Samia's friendly business policies and openness has hugely contributed to investors’ confidence. “We have seen domestic investors rivaling foreigners in buying, a trend which is somewhat surprising,” Mr Nganya said. President Samia inherited a more challenging business environment that did not foster friendly policies towards businesses and which authorities were more about heavy-handed and arbitrary enforcement of rules. “That was among the first things addressed and somewhat the overall sentiment has changed,” Mr Nganya said. Mr Nganya, an economist, said another area is credit to the private sector, which was hugely suppressed as businesses were closing doors due to unfriendly policies and lenders were more willing to lend to the government due to high rate of loan defaults. “Recently,” he said, “we noticed the increase in lenders confidence and a reduction in lending rates to single digits, something, which is somewhat unreal given the situation we were in three or four years ago”. CRDB in January slashed lending rates to agriculturalists from 20 per cent to 9.0 per cent, a move that promises farmers of an affordable financing option to tweak their operations. And last month, the same bank entered into partnership with the Zanzibar government to offer a free-interest loan to SMEs engaging in blue economy activities. Generally, since President Samia came to power, the largest 10 commercial banks reported a record combined net profit of 715bn/-. The last year net profit was 62 per cent more than the combined net profit of 440.9bn/- that the 10 lenders registered in 2020. The top 10 lenders are those with assets valued at above 1.0tri/- each namely CRDB, NMB, National Bank of Commerce (NBC), Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania and Diamond Trust Bank (DTB) Tanzania. Others are Stanbic Bank Tanzania, Exim Bank Tanzania, Azania Bank, Tanzania Commercial Bank (TCB) and Citibank. Today, many nations want to come and invest in the country. The recent one for instance is French, where companies that have affirmed to continue increasing their investment in the country and the other is a Czech plane maker which is planning to set up a manufacturing base in Tanzania.