THE government has said the timely release of funds for development projects have significantly helped to increase money circulation in the economy. The government has said the increase of broad money in an economy fuels economic activities, thus propelling growth in various sectors. According to Bank of Tanzania (BoT) February's Monthly Economic Review (MER), the broad money supply grew at an annual rate of 14.9 per cent during the year ending this January. The Ministry of Finance and Planning Permanent Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Tutuba said on Monday that the broad money supply improved significantly during the past few months, thanks to enhanced disbursement of development funds. “The growth in broad money supply shows that there is timely disbursement of funds from domestic and foreign sources that went to implement development activities and was well on our projections,” Mr Tutuba told editors here at a seminar organised by the finance ministry. The PS said in recent days, not a single development project had stalled due to lack of funds from the ministry. In economics, broad money is a measure of the amount of money, or money supply, in a national economy, including both highly liquid "narrow money" and less liquid forms and other assets that are easily converted into currency, including large time deposits. The BoT report showed that the 14.9 per cent growth rate of January was more than two-fold of the outturn in the corresponding period last year. Mr Tutuba said so far, the government has disbursed 8.4tri/- in development financing up to February this year, signifying that the government was on the right track to fully implementing its 13tri/- development budget for 2021/22. The smooth execution of the budget explains the fact that both local and foreign revenue sources were doing well. Economist-cum-investment banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo said broad money supply was good for the economy, but insisted it is equally critical to ensure the raise does not affect the output or Gross Domestic Product (GDP). "Monetary policy plays an important role in boosting the economic growth if the provided money is viewed as exogenously within the economy,” Dr Shayo told the ‘Daily News’ on Tuesday. The ministry figures showed that out of 8.4tri/-, two-third was from local revenues collection and the rest from outside. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), for instance, reported to have collected 11.11tri/-, which is equivalent to 98 per cent of 11.302tri/- forecasted between July and December last year. To stimulate economic growth further, Dr Shayo suggested that what is needed is the government spending to be based on monetary policy, to stimulate the economy to be embraced, together with fiscal policy. This will imply that the BoT’s expansionary money policy to stimulate economic growth must further lower interest rates to increase the supply of money into the economy. The ministry views concured with that of the BoT, which said that the growth in money supply – which was consistent with the target of 10 per cent for the whole of 2021/2022, was due to accommodative monetary policy and recovery of private sector credit growth, occasioned by improving business conditions from the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Private sector credit growth was quoted at an annual rate of 10 per cent during the year ending January