No doubt that the first year of President Samia Suluhu Hassan regime has set out a new vision and direction of where Tanzania is heading. In a less than a year of her presidency, President Samia has managed to open up the country in various areas notably her pursuit of economic diplomacy that has enabled Tanzania to access foreign financing instruments necessary for financing the ongoing national strategic projects. During her first year in power, President Samia has become an instrumental figure in attracting foreign investments key to creation of jobs and increased government revenue through payments of various taxes. The President has also harmonized the industrialization agenda by encouraging establishment of industrial parks in all regions and pleaded to the private sector to take the leading role. This may explain why the ministry responsible for industries was restructured to become the ‘Ministry of Investment, Industry and Trade (MIIT)’ charged attracting investments, building industries and then trade locally, regionally and internationally. More importantly, President Samia’s staunch support to the continued implementation of all strategic projects that have huge impacts on national economic development is underlined in her briefs that such projects have strong multi-plier effects down streamlined to socio-economic development across all population cadres including youth and women employment. As we reflect on President Samia’s one year in office, training institutions have continued to play a pivotal role in contributing towards creating enabling environment for graduates’ self-employment given the readiness of current political will to create up 7 million jobs by 2025 as directed in the 2020 election manifesto of the Ruling party CCM. In one of her papers titled the “Role of Education for Industrial Development in Tanzania” the then Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako argued that the high population growth coupled with the increased number of children enrolled in school makes it more important than ever to develop relevant skills for the youth to ensure their effective in national development. In her paper Prof Ndalichako maintained that the intention of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology is to improve the quality of education at all levels, strengthen vocational and technical training and create employment particularly through industrialization. This is where “Tanzania’s Quest for Industrialization” becomes more relevant for the training institutions and industrial related sectors to be fully aligned to the National Industrialization Agenda focused on the graduate selfemployment. Prof Ndalichako is of the opinion that on the basis of situation analysis, the process of industrialization is driven by three imperatives namely: the need to have a skilled labour force which can support the growth of key economic sectors, the need to accommodate large numbers of young people entering the labour force every year in search of productive jobs, and the need to integrate science, technology and innovation to sustain industrial growth. From these observations; it is evident that most of training institutions in particular universities and technical education institutions have been largely addressing the question of ‘skilled labour’ for productive jobs to work in government establishment, public sector and well established private sectors. Creating employment for graduates by many of these training institutions has remained an elusive issue! Very few universities and technical education training institutions have practical models that directly prepare graduates for self-employment. Few of such training institutions are Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Mzumbe University (MU), The Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), and University of Iringa (UoI). Situation is even worse in vocational training institutions where despite trainees being taught various technical and services skills they are not supported to become self-employed. Very few find ways for reliable self-employment as majority of these trainees hopes for being employed. Prof Ndalichako hints that reviews from labour market surveys indicate that out of a workforce of 19 million people; more than 14 million are self-employed in the informal sector, primarily in agriculture and petty trading “the Machinga.” However, this does not curb the existing massive un-employment facing graduates from vocational training institutions, technical education institutions and university training institutions. In the author’s article titled ‘Taking National Industrialization Agenda to the next Level: The Role of the Training Institutions and Private Sectors” emphasis was placed on training institutions’ need to be transformed in order to be able to fully facilitate graduates’ entry into industrialization process in particular in a form of self-employment. The article also dwelt on how training institutions could be aligned to the current National Industrialization Agenda; inculcate (effective not ad-hoc) entrepreneurship and industrialization mindset into young graduates for inclusive participation in the industrialization process for jobs creation and self-employment. It is from this background training institutions have been strongly urged to attend the training institutions and industrial related sectors forum on alignment to the national industrialization agenda focusing on graduates’ selfemployment in agricultural sector value-chains and its sub-sectors of livestock and fisheries. DEVCOM, a non-state actor organization, has organized a forum to be hosted by the Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) from 23rd to 25th March, 2022 in which technical education training institutions under the newly reshaped National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (NACTVET) have been invited to participate. Equally invited are institutions and agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Investment, Industry and Trade, financial institutions and local banks, industries, and key players in the agricultural sector. The outcome of this Forum will be captured by the Graduate Industrial Development Programme for Self-employment (GIDPS-2022-2026)” whose primary objective is to entice graduates into selfemployment in the sectors of agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry products and in other sectors of economy. In this case, the ministries of Agriculture and Investment, Industry and Trade, and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology are expected to play significant role if creation of self-employment for graduates are to be successful. For instance, the Tanzania Agro-Industrialization Development Flagship (TAIDF), a government framework for mobilizing and coordinating investments towards agro-industrialization is placed under the oversight of the Ministry of Investment, Industry and Trade. The Secretariat of the Agriculture Sector Development Programme (ASDP II) coordinated through the Prime Minister’s Office guides the Ministry of Agriculture to provide technical expertise, policy direction for increased investments along agricultural value-chains and agroprocessing industries. The TAIDF focuses its interventions on three main broad interlinked components. They include: infrastructure, support services and incentives for agro-industrial development; agriculture modernization and intensification; and support to individual and institutional capacity strengthening for effective agro-industrialization. This means that the framework is an important tool in facilitating graduates entry into agriculture value-chains and agro-processing for selfemployment, jobs creation for future economic livelihood sustainability. The only missing link is a clear pathway towards a genuine engagement of graduates willing to enter into self-employment through investment opportunities presented by the agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry products sectors. The DEVCOM’s programme for Graduates Industrial Development Programme for Self-employment intends to contribute towards bridging this gap. More significantly, the GIDPS draws its strength from four main documents: The Ruling Party CCM Manifesto (2020-2025) on creation of 7 million employments by 2025; the Integrated Industrial Development Strategy (IIDS-2025) which appreciates “Kilimo Kwanza” for agro-industry and mobilization of Tanzanians to take economic advantage associated with agricultural valuechains; the Tanzania Agro-Industrialization Development Flagship (TAIDF) which intends to support 600 SMEs by 2025; the Agricultural Sector Development Programme Phase II (ASDP II); and The Tanzania Development Vision 2025 which among other things encourages high quality livelihood, peace, stability and unity; and a strong and competitive economy. GIDPS (2022-2026) programme is therefore, designed in line with these key Government documents. DEVCOM intends to coordinate creation of 100 graduates SMEs by 2025 through TAIDF (2020) proposed 600 SMEs to be supported by the framework by 2025. The GIDPS targets to encourage graduate youth and women self-employment for economic prosperity. The TAIDF framework will end in 2026. Therefore, linking training institutions with public private industrial related organizations for effective production of skilled human resources corresponding with the growth of industrial economy, prepare psychologically college and university graduates for self-employment (a missing link) in the industrial sector, agricultural, livestock, fisheries, and forestry products value-chains sectors and various sectors of the economy is important. Within this context, it is important to appreciate that Tanzania has a young and rapidly growing population that requires transformative training and skills acquisition to expand agro-industrialization and industrial development in other cross-cutting sectors. With this reality, the Tanzania Government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan has been intentional about stimulating industrialization in the country, putting in place various measures to stimulate industrial growth for increased employment, and put the country on the economic development and poverty alleviation. Essentially, this justifies the presence of GIDPS which intends to complement to the ongoing efforts by the Government and other stakeholders engaged in supporting youth and women employment. This goes with the fact that while entrepreneurship courses are offered in many training institutions such courses has not been transformative tool enough to encourage self-employment by graduates. Unemployment of graduates has remained rampant, forcing trained labour forces to opt for MACHINGA type of business. This trend cannot be left unrested, it is un-acceptable. The GIDPS intends to offer significant complemented efforts in closing this gap. The trend of unemployment crisis facing graduates from tertiary and higher learning institutions must be dealt with relentlessly. The outcry of unemployment among the youth in Tanzania cannot wait longer than now especially where we have in place very strong and considerate political leadership. The Government data show that 800,000 fresh graduates enter the labour market from various colleges and higher learning institutions every year but the Government employments merely 40,000 annually! (Daily News: Tuesday, November 16-22, 2021 pg.19). Tanzania has a young and rapidly growing population meaning that there are many youths that can be employed along commodity value-chains in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry sectors. The big window that can absorb the majority is self-employment. Self-employment window should be looked at soberly and critically! Therefore, the significant of the March 23-25, 2022 Forum hosted by an agricultural grounded university will be the creation of a task force that will identify quick wins projects from the sectors of agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry products to be coordinated by GIDPS for identified graduates groups. Through DEVCOM coordination; resource mobilization necessary to support creation of graduates’ viable projects will be pursued at domestic and international level. Resources that can support youth employability projects do exist; the biggest headache is resource mobilization coordination and the public institutional frameworks which do not appreciate partnership with private initiatives. While these contemplated measures may be successful; the role of the government in the development of the economy should also focus on supporting development of industrial estates in upcountry regions that will generate employment opportunities. Even youth migration to economic advanced urban areas will decrease. More importantly, this will also encourage self employment by graduates. For the National Industrialization Agenda to hold on and produce the desired economic outcome; the Agenda should be linked with the country’s political process (which is now the case), education system, political economy, and more importantly enhanced technology and the effective use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Therefore, as we discuss the role of training institutions and industrial related organizations; the importance of Industrial Parks or specific agro-industrial parks in economic development cannot be over emphasized. Industrial Parks are an ideal catalyst for industrialization, agroindustrialization inclusive. If Industrial Parks will be fully developed in Tanzania Mainland’s 26 current regions and scaled down to her 184 Local Government Authorities (LGAs), the economic development will be huge and creation of self-employment possible. Likewise, if built at Regional level, Industrial Parks will provide readymade industrial sheds to tertiary and universities graduates wishing to venture into industrial production and entrepreneurship In particular, massive employment strategic sectors such as agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry products value-chains will flourish. The intending forum therefore, will contribute to the implementation of the National Industrialization Agenda and will set the agenda for the roadmap towards supporting young graduates to be fully integrated into the industrialization process, agro-industry inclusive. For sure it can be done if genuinely join hands. In particular, the Government should be ready to accept development ideas from broad based mechanisms. The author, Gaston Modest Kaziri, is a bona fide of St Augustine University of Tanzania PhD Programme in Mass Communication. He holds Diploma in Journalism (NSTI), Post Graduate Diploma in International Relations and Diplomacy (CFR), BA Mass Communication (TUDARCo), MA Mass Communication (SAUT), and PhD Candidate (SAUT). He is a specialist in communication in resource mobilization for development projects. He is currently the Executive Director of DEVCOM. He can be reached through +255 788 244912, Email: kaziri2013@gmail.com