PEOPLE Living with HIV (PLHIV) have requested the government to intensify mass campaigns to bring to zero stigmatization and discrimination against them. They made the request during the commemoration of Zero Discrimination Day 2022 which was marked in the country's capital under the theme: 'Strengthen Systems for Enabling Environment'. The event was organised at the national level by the Tanzania Commission for Aids (TACAIDS) in collaboration with UNAIDS and the National Council of People Living with HIV/AIDS (NACOPHA). When giving their testimonies on what they went through after testing HIV positive, the PLHIV said they had encountered difficulties in their families and the communities surrounding as they were completely discriminated to an extent that they nearly committed suicide. “I thank the efforts by NACOPHA for being among the first persons to receive capacity building training which made me become who I am today, living well and health for more than 20 years,” said Ms Dora Mwaluko. A 24-year-old  Amina Abdulrahman, also living with HIV, said after facing discrimination from her family she nearly died for failure to access important needs including food, including access to ARVs, but after frequent seminars she received from NACOPHA, she was currently living a comfortable life. “I advise the government to intensify campaigns and plans for ending discrimination because still, discrimination I existing in our communities,” she said. Speaking at the occasion with a hashtag #‘Enough! No Stigma, Discrimination and injustice’, which convened PLHIV and Persons with Disabilities (PWDs), the Deputy Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office Policy, Coordination and Parliament, Ummy Nderiananga said it was high time to take action as well as protecting the rights of children, those with disabilities and PLHIV. According to her, the government was determined to ending discrimination in the country by ensuring that its target was to have zero discrimination in the country. She further called upon all stakeholders to air their recommendations on all the outdated policies that were impeding the fight against discrimination, Gender based violence, as well protecting the rights of all marginalized groups including PLHIV, children, women and PWDs. “I also call upon Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Community Based Organisations (CBOs) and Religious leaders to join efforts with the government in the fight against discrimination,’’ said the deputy minister. TACAIDS representative Jumanne Isanga said between March 2022 and March 2023 his commission would implement a strategic plan and massive campaigns to reduce the current rate of discrimination to PLHIV which stands at 5.3percent to zero discrimination. NACOPHA Vice Chairman, Yusuph Merere called for joint efforts from all stakeholders to collaborate with the government to end discrimination.