AN EXPERT has warned women against inserting untested 'aphrodisiacs' into their private parts, thereby posing great risks of contracting cervical cancer, which is the most common problem in the country and second among women worldwide. According to 2021 data from the Ocean Road Cancer Institute the most common types of cancer among women are cervical cancer (43 per cent), breast cancer (14.2 per cent) and throat cancer (3.8 per cent). Senior Programme Technical Advisor Lead for Gender and Social Inclusion at Engender Health, Dr Katanta Simwanza, revealed during a workshop on HIV/AIDS and Non-communicable diseases organised by the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) for its staff in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. "There is a high risk of women contracting cervical cancer due to factors such as the use of untested aphrodisiacs, unsafe sex, engaging into early sexual intercourse and sexual contact with uncircumcised men," said Dr Simwanza. An aphrodisiac is a food or drug that arouses sexual instinct, brings on desire, or increases sexual pleasure or performance. According to him, there is a rise in cases of women using different supplements such as potassium permanganate among others to increase their partner's sex drive. He noted that the habit was most common for women hence making them at a very high risk of contracting diseases like HIV and AIDS, cervical cancer and Hepatitis B. Dr Simwanza outlined among other risks which may be caused by inserting the so called aphrodisiacs including destroying natural aroma, reproductive tract infections (RTI), and increasing gender based violence risks. “Such practices may expose women to the many dangers with regard to their health and welfare,” he noted. Similarly, the expert called upon concerted efforts by investing in the protection of girls, calling upon families to do more for the course. He called upon schools to incorporate sanitary pads as a compulsory aspect in their joining instructions like school uniforms. "Most parents or guardians don't take trouble to allocate a budget for pads to help their female children during their monthly periods. "Girls are forced to engage in early sexual practices to acquire there basic needs including sanitary pads because they have not been provided for by parents," revealed the Expert. As such, the girls have ended up using unsafe materials to cover them up during their menses including maize cobs, cow dung, stones, and digging holes.