YOUNG Africans Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi appreciated the massive turnout at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza saying the series of good results they are recording are a key factor to the bumper entry. Yanga continued with their stellar performance in the NBC Premier League after beating Geita Gold 1-0 over the weekend to hit 45 points at the top of the pile from 17 games. The team’s hitman Fiston Mayele intensified his golden boot chase when he netted his 10th goal that are buoyed by three assists to equal Namungo’s Reliants Lusajo who has also scored 10 goals. “My philosophy is to let Yanga play good football and win matches and these two qualities are helping a lot to attract many fans into the stadium to watch their team. They are entertained,” he said. In the second half, he was compelled to re-deploy Yannick Bangala to the defensive responsibilities where he partnered well with his skipper Bakari Mwamnyeto to diffuse the opponent’s attacks. “After conceding a goal early, they came up with new energy at the interval hence the reason we had to boost the defensive line to protect our slim lead,” he said. His lethal striker Mayele dedicated the 10th goal he netted to his first born child whose birthday is today saying it was a worthy gift to spice up the great day. Concerning the battle for the golden boot, Mayele remarked that the race is difficult as he is competing with great players who are also salivating for the top scorer award like George Mpole (Geita Gold) striker. He then encouraged Yanga fans and members to keep supporting them throughout the season as they thrive to do whatever necessary to win the championship. However, as one way to acknowledge his immense contributions at the club, Mayele’s fan who was not immediately known awarded him a cow worth 700,000/- saying he was sent by members of Yanga’s Majengo branch in Kahama to honour him. This happens to be the second cow for Mayele to be gifted this term from his passionate fans as he was awarded the first cow worth 400,000/- when he scored against Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in their 2-0 win. On his part, Geita Gold coach Felix Minziro said lack of scoring efficiency by his charges was the reason they failed to shine on the day as they missed several scoring chances. Furthermore, Minziro highlighted that the reason he preferred his striker Mpole to take charge of all set-pieces they won during the match was that he has been scoring goals from them but he was surprised that he wasted all of them.