TANZANIA Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) and Indian Chamber of Commerce have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)   aims at promoting economic growth, trade and investment. The ceremony was witnessed by the Deputy Minister for  Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Exaud Kigahe on behalf of the Minister, Dr Ashatu Kijaji. He said the MoU is an indication that the two countries are working together to strengthen investment and business relations for economic growth. "This agreement is part of appreciating the contribution of the government of India to Tanzania as a safe place for investment in various sectors including mining, agriculture and Energy" he said. Mr Kigahe pointed out that Tanzania is now perceived as one of the better economic performers in Sub Saharan Africa. Moreover, the MoU signed will   be valid for five years and be implemented in areas of energy, agriculture, industry and infrastructure. The Deputy Minister noted that a strong bilateral relationship has provided vibrant economic, commercial and business ties. Therefore, the bilateral trade has reached USD 2.22 billion in 2021-2022. The signing ceremony was attended by Regional Director, Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Mr Debmalya Banerjee who led a delegation of 20 Indian companies from the Power, Energy sector under the support of the government. The Indian High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Binaya Pradhan said the MoU signed aimed   at building a long term partnership in economic linkages. Ambassador Pradhan mentioned among areas which they will cooperate to invest through the MOU to the Health, Education and infrastructure especially on ports. "This two countries' cooperation was brought about due to the reforms made by the Tanzania government that led Indian companies to visit and explore the available opportunities which aimed to strengthen economic joint ventures," Ambassador Pradhan added.  . "I am pleased with TCCIA and ICC cooperation which will provide a framework progressive and bright future in the economic development of both countries," he said. TCCIA President Paul Koyi commented that,  the Chamber's focus will be on Investment in Agriculture areas including adding value to raw materials to Tanzanian farmers to add value to their crops. He added that in June they hope to send a delegation from the Chamber to learn more and look at the opportunities available to further promote business partnerships.