SPECIAL silverware awaits the overall winners of mini-international friendly tournament involving Taifa, Central African Republic and Somalia, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) confirmed on Saturday. However, today is the official date when players who have been called for the lined up friendly encounters which fall under the FIFA international calendar, are required to report for camp as recently directed by the team's Head Coach Kim Poulsen. In the tri-nation tournament, each country will play two matches beginning on Wednesday when Taifa Stars entertain Central African Republic while on Saturday, Somalia will face Central African Republic and the last game on March 29th, Stars will face Somalia to wind up the tournament. In his words recently, the federation's Media and Marketing Director Boniface Wambura said they have organised a special trophy for the team which will perform well in the tournament. "To our side, preparations for the two international friendly matches are going on well and soon we are going to announce how people will watch the games," he said. Adding, Wambura disclosed that the tri-nation tournament is also part of commemorating President Samia Suluhu Hassan's one year term in the office saying under her presidency, sports sector has recorded a huge success. The recently paraded Taifa Stars squad with their current clubs in bracket comprises goalkeepers; Aishi Manula (Simba), Metacha Mnata (Polisi Tanzania), Aboutwalib Mshery (Young Africans) and defenders; Shomari Kapombe (Simba) and Israel Mwenda (Simba). Others are Haji Mnoga (Weymouth-England), Dickson Job (Young Africans), Bakari Mwamnyeto (Young Africans), Lusajo Mwaikenda (Azam), Abdulrazack Hamza (Namungo) and Mohamed Hussein (Simba). Also, the list has Nickson Kibabage (KMC), Farid Mussa (Young Africans), Novatus Dismas (Belta Tel Aviv Bat Yam-Israel), Mzamiru Yassin (Simba), Jonas Mkude (Simba), Zawadi Mauya (Young Africans), Aziz Andabwile (Mbeya City), Simon Msuva (Wydad Casablanca-Morocco) and Kelvin John (Genk-Belgium). Also, the selection contains Feisal Salum (Young Africans), Ben Starkie (Spalding-England), Mbwana Samatta (Antwerp-Belgium), Tepsi Evans (Azam), Reliant Lusajo (Namungo), Kibu Denis (Simba), George Mpole (Geita Gold) and Ibrahim Joshua (Tusker-Kenya).