THE presence of big names in music and arts sectors will light up streets in Tanzanian capital Dodoma, the venue of this year’s Serengeti Music Festival which takes place there next week. The government said yesterday that the festival will be conducted for two days from March 12th to 13th in Dodoma. Declaring this in Dar es Salaam, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports Hassan Abbasi said they have decided to extend the time due to a presence of a big number of artistes in the list of performers. Initially, the event was planned to be held on March 12th before the new changes were officially declared thereby making it a two-day music festival. "The turnout of artistes who want to perform in this event has been overwhelming and so far, over 100 of legendary musician and upcoming artistes have been registered for the show. "This has been made possible due to the good planning by the government in collaboration with other stakeholders as we work together to make it memorable," said Abbasi while addressing the event’s committee in the city. He further pointed out that this is the only national level event which brings on one stage old, new and upcoming artistes. "The aim of this all- genre music festival is to make them share artistic experience especially to the young generation while at the sametime helping to advertise globally various tourist attractions found in the country," he said. Again, Abbasi clarified that naming the event 'Serengeti' is a clear indication that the purpose is to advertise the country since many people in different parts of the world will have access to watch it live. In another development, football has been described as having a big potential to facilitate economic growth of the country courtesy of revenues collected from various leagues which are conducted. This was remarked by the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports SaidiYakubu when he unveiled the Tanzania Football Summit (TFS) in Zanzibar. He then picked the English Premier League as an example of football leagues which contribute a lot to the national economic development of England saying the same thing should be done to advertise the domestic football leagues.