Having recorded significant achievements in her first year of leadership President Samia Suluhu Hassan says she now wants to create a nation that treasures national sovereignty and shuns politics of foreign meddling. During one year of her presidency the Head of State has successfully opened the country, promoted political dialogue and attracted a substantial number of investments. To ensure her dreams are realized, the President insisted on the need for Tanzanians to uphold national peace, unity and tranquility for the greater interest of the country. also emphasized on the need for the provision of civic education to the public to create awareness amongst Tanzanians on the importance of conducting civilized politics. President Samia revealed her wish list during an interview with Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) focusing on her one-year in office. “I want to leave behind a country which protects its sovereignty and whose people cannot be influenced by foreign forces,” Ms Samia stated. She said the quest for building national sovereignty goes along the need for political dialogue that will play part on forging national unity among Tanzanians. The President highlighted some of her achievements during her first year in the office after taking over from her predecessor, Dr John Magufuli, who passed on March 17, 2021. Under her administration the government has managed to carry all projects forward that were introduced during the fifth phase government and introduced other projects for the development of the nation. Commenting on development that have been attained so far, President Samia mentioned the advantages of the foreign trips that she made saying the initiative has played a crucial role in opening up the country. President Samia said through her visits, Tanzania has attracted a good number of foreign investors, who have shown interest to invest and trade in and with the country. So far, the Head of State has visited 13 countries inside and outside Africa in an effort to cement bilateral ties and market the country’s investment and tourism opportunities. Countries she visited include Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Egypt, Scotland, France, Belgium, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the United States (US) where she attended the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). During her visits, the President, among other programmes, held official talks with her hosts on ways to improve trade volume between them and Tanzania as well as cementing the ties that have existed for a long time. In another development, the Head of State reiterated the commitment by her government to continue curbing embezzlement, misuse of funds and malpractices among members of the civil service, saying there will be no mercy on corrupt officials. During the interview President Samia also spoke of serious financial malpractices linked with misuse of public funds allocated for the execution of various key strategic projects in the country. She pointed out that the embezzlement of funds were uncovered in different reports of the Controller and Auditor General (CAG). “The problem of embezzlement of funds directed for the implementation of various projects is still huge,” said President Samia, noting that the government has continued to take strong measures to ensure the allocated funds are spent as intended. She cited an example of various ports projects which are currently going on in the country, noting that despite the fact that the implementation requires the allocation of large sums in reality it was not the case on the ground. She, however, pointed out that the ports have been doing well in terms of revenue collection, stressing that more can be done to rectify the system for the ports to perform better. According to her, the goal is to ensure three quarters of the country’s budget is financed by revenue collections from ports. The President hinted on some of the initiatives they intend to take to further boost business at the ports, including joint ventures. “Once the ports are operated through partnerships, it is obvious that they will not create room for any misconducts…the partnership will involve installing effective systems which will be operated in line with the Tanzania Revenue Systems and other areas relating to revenue collection and expenditure,” stated the President. She hinted that reforms will also include areas of port management and the formation of a new board of directors after dissolving the previous one. Although much has been done to improve things, still a lot has to be done to ensure things are operating smoothly at the ports. President Samia also spoke on fuel leakage at the ports, saying the problem is also alarming, hinting that they will carry out an overhaul in the whole process of handling fuel. According to the Head of State, the country has an available stock sufficient to cater for only 15 days, insisting the goal is to make sure the stock goes up to 45 days. She said as part of the plans to deal with the problem of price fluctuation, which has been triggered by Covid-19 and wars, plans are underway to carry out bulk procurement by importing fuel from the sources, noting that an agreement was reached in UAE. “The goal is to have enough fuel stock which will later enable us to supply it to our neighbors in land linked countries,” she said. On agriculture she revealed that the goal is to boost the value chain of food crops to serve as cash crops, citing an example of Mbeya rice, which has scored highly in the Belgium market in terms of its demand and price. She pledged to support Tanzanians engaging in vegetable business so that it can grow as the industry is now paying off. She also spoke on developing agriculture sector by focusing on irrigation schemes to ensure the country has enough food stock for domestic use and export. She said in the coming budget the government has allocated enough funds to boost irrigation farming to increase the number of cash crops grown in the country. “More produce are getting into the list of cash crops nowadays, most of the food crops including rice are now being exported abroad. There is also a market for vegetables and avocados. As a country we have to make better use of the opportunity,” she insisted.