TANZANIA’s economy is poised for a massive boost once implementation of investments earmarked in the 36 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) becomes effective, according to economists. The MoUs, worth 7.49 billion US dollars (about 17.8tri/-), were signed during the Tanzania Business and Investment Forum in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Sunday, graced by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Speaking in separate interviews with the ‘Daily News’ on Monday, the economists urged responsible government institutions to fast-track execution of the investment projects. “President Samia is doing a very good job in attracting investments. It is now up to responsible institutions to facilitate the projects,” Dr Bohela Lunogelo, an economist and former Executive Director of Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF), remarked. Dr Lunogelo commented further that it was high time the government established a one-stop centre to facilitate and fast-track approvals of investments and issuance of preliminary certificates for environment and social impact assessment. The economist urged multiple institutions involved in execution of the envisaged investment projects to avoid red-tape which could frustrate potential investors. Commenting on the MoUs, a renowned economist-cum-banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, said President Samia's excursion to Dubai Expo 2020, once again, has shown a sincere desire to continue to open-up to Tanzania, especially in terms of investments. “Her personal participation is a strong sign that she intends to bring Tanzania back to the world map, which in one way or another had previously placed Tanzania in a tough time, due to among other things, caused by the global economic downturn and the presence of covid-19 which left many wounds in the economies of various countries. “In the process of reaching an investment deal, it should be observed that much as the government values good intentions shown at the Dubai Expo, signing of 36 MoUs amongst business partners, government and other business entities is in my view a preliminary step,” he observed. Dr Shayo applauded President Samia's stark reminder that the MoUs signing should not be just a ceremony inundated with colourful photographs and showing interest but rather turning the agreements into execution. “The task that I see remains is to take these investors and place them within sectors segments that will not only bring productivity, efficiency but returns to the nation and to investors in a win-win situation,” he stated. In a separate interview, a veteran economist, Prof Haji Semboja, urged state organs to put in place a conducive environment for the potential investors. “Implementation of the investment projects will play a crucial role in stimulating the economy. We are on the right path and we should make best use of it,” he stated. On the other hand, Prof Semboja called for review of legislations and policies which hinder smooth operations of investors. The MoUs ushered in a new era of a robust and multi-faceted partnership between Tanzania and UAE, opening doors for a more prosperous future, particularly for the former, which strives to build a strong industrial-based economy. Among key sectors which will benefit from investment agreements are energy, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure, transportation, textiles, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), construction and other sectors in the country. Twelve MoUs were signed between the Tanzanian government and investors, while 23 MoUs were signed between Tanzanian companies and various investors seeking joint ventures or collaboration in various sectors of the economy.   