Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) is recognising the critical role of women in its operations and value chain by making efficient use of their capability that may benefit the wider community. The SBL Managing Director, Mark Ocitti said, “Let me emphasise here that equality is not a women's issue, it's a business issue. An equal business is an enabled business. Gender equality is essential for economies and communities to thrive,” Mr Ocitti made the remarks at the event for which SBL was named a winner at The Citizen Rising Women Awards in the Women of the Future category at Global Women's Day. The award recognises organizations with unique and impactful initiatives that advance gender balance in the workplace. The criteria for the award cover policies, systems and structures that support women from within the company to step up the career ladder. SBL is championing inclusion and diversity and has been implementing some impactful programmes to drive this agenda. For example, the company is proud of the all-female run spirits production facility in Moshi which has demonstrated extraordinary capabilities of young ladies. The facility produces SBL’s new baby, Bongo Don Spirit. Through an all-female spirits plant, SBL is taking inclusion and diversity to another level with a new spirit facility which is entirely under the watch and operation of a team of 13 female employees. Ms Evelyn Joh said, “I am really happy to work with SBL and this great team. As part of the job, I have been trained on functional processes and leadership capabilities and moulded to be bold, daring, agile and resilient to become a great leader. I feel engaged and included,” On her part, Betrida Cayus, the Cube quality technician said the facility is a centre of excellence and together with other highly motivated ladies are overwhelmed and proud to work as a team with one goal and one vision. “With what we are doing, we are eliminating the notion that women cannot do without men because our overall performance and individual growth will always speak for us,” she said.