THE Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) Tanzania has been urged to adhere to professionalism, integrity and code of conduct while executing its duties. The call was made in Dar es Salaam by the wife of Vice-President, Ms Mbonimpaye Mpango during the inauguration of the IIA’s rebranded logo and website. She said internal auditing provides assurance, consultancy on governance, risk management and control which translates to transparency. “Internal auditing is an important aspect for development and sustainability and the field has been undergoing transformation process due to its demand and expectation from various stakeholders,” she said. She said innovation and creativity are crucial to internal auditors during provision of the services to the public, adding that that has been proven from the rebranded logo feature, which reflects the global issues such as environment and technological advancements," she said. Similarly, she advised IIA to embrace digital technology while performing their internal auditing duties. "Our government has been undertaking various initiatives through the Ministry of Finance and Planning in both Mainland and Zanzibar to develop the capacity of internal auditors to increase efficiency and competence in auditing" she added. Moreover, research has proved that when internal auditing is effective it makes the organisations stronger and sustainable. "I applaud IIA for its efforts in promoting and elevating internal auditing professionals in Tanzania by offering internal auditing training certificates to its members and other stakeholders," she added.  Institute of Internal Auditors, Tanzania, President, CPA Zelia Nyenja said the rebranded logo aims to increase efficiency and improve services to meet their key stakeholders. Ms Nyenja mentioned some challenges faced by internal auditors as poor understanding about internal auditing, a factor that pushed the institute to start providing education to enable stakeholders understand the importance of the service. She said internal auditing helps an organisation to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. On her part, Zanzibar Internal Auditor General, Ms Fatma Khamis Mohamed said previously internal auditors were facing numerous challenges but thanks to IIA and government's support on providing capacity building training to Accounting Officers to ensure internal auditing is well-known in all institutions. Internal auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to help an organisation accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.