BARELY five months after President Samia Suluhu Hassan took an oath of office, Tanzania accepted use of Covid-19 vaccine as a compliment to efforts in the fight against the global pandemic. The vaccines were issued on a voluntary basis for people from 18 years of age and above, with the target of vaccinating 60 per cent of the adult population. This served as part of the efforts by the government to protect its citizens against the coronavirus, a move that was commended by members of the public, clerics and international community among others. The government has so far approved five vaccines to be used which have also been endorsed by World Health Organization (WHO) including Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Sinopharm and Sinovac. By March 4 this year, Tanzania had received 9,845,774 Covid-19 vaccines with 2,664,373 full doses improvised among the public in the same period. Hardly a month after taking oath of office, President Samia declared an intention of forming a team of experts to thoroughly evaluate the Covid-19 situation in Tanzania. The team was required to come up with suggestions on whether the country should resort to the vaccination approach to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Through a consultative process, the team of experts was formed to professionally evaluate the Covid-19 pandemic and come up with recommendations on the matter. In the late of July last year, President Samia led the country in a rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines, where she assured Tanzanians that the vaccines were safe and noted that a big number of people had expressed interest to receive the jab. This came after Tanzania joined the Covax arrangement, like other countries, to receive vaccines which will cover 20 percent of its total population. She noted that the government would make sure the vaccines are available for all Tanzanians who are willing to be vaccinated. "Tanzania is not an island, hence, there is no way we can distance ourselves from the rest of the world, we still need interaction and our people have to keep on traveling," she noted, insisting that the exercise is voluntary, but the government would continue providing public awareness and education on its importance. "The vaccines are safe, that is why I have decided to take this shot. As you know, I'm a mother of four children, a grandmother, wife and above all, the President and Commander-In- Chief of the armed forces. There is no way I can put my life at risk if the vaccine weren't safe," said President Samia. In rolling out the vaccines, the government has so far launched two ambitious vaccination campaigns   aimed at mobilizing people to take the jabs. The target was to vaccinate around 100,000 people daily. At the end of December last year, Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Health, Professor Abel Makubi said the programme would be scaled top-down through the coordination of leaders in the regions, districts, streets, villages, and hamlets level to bring the service closer to the people. Based on this, he said each region will need to inoculate at least 4,000 and 5,000 individuals on a daily basis, giving room for the country to arrive at the anticipated 60 per cent target. "Through the campaign we intend to vaccinate around 80,000 and 100,000 individuals daily from its previous campaign target of 20,000 to 40,000 people," he said. The PS revealed that the target was attainable as 70 per cent of the people within the country have expressed interest to receive the Covid-19 jabs. In strengthening the vaccination drive, he said they have increased the number of vaccination centers from the previous 6,784 up to around 8,000 centers. The move will also involve allocating different vaccination points around the streets as well as moving from house to house to raise awareness on the advantages of the vaccines. Since the adoption of vaccines as among armaments in the protection against spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the move received accolades from various groups within and outside the country. Recently, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) commended President Samia for the steps taken under her leadership to fight the Covid-19 global pandemic. USAID Administrator, Ms Samantha Power had held a virtual meeting with President Samia and commended her for encouraging Tanzanians to get vaccinated, launching a Covid-19 Vaccination Acceleration Plan, setting ambitious goals to vaccinate 60 percent of the eligible population by June this year. During their talks, President Samia provided her perspective on Tanzania's Covid-19 vaccination progress and indicated that Tanzania is well positioned to accelerate its Covid-19 vaccination efforts. Ms Power described USAID's ongoing efforts to work with partners to accelerate vaccine delivery and uptake across sub-Saharan Africa, and discussed how Global VAX could support the Tanzanian government in expanding and accelerating its vaccination efforts. She said USAID was planning to provide 25 million US dollars that will support expanded and new activities to help increase vaccination rates. "These funds are in addition to ongoing investments by the United States in Tanzania to prevent, treat and monitor Covid-19, and to build health security capacities," she said. Religious leaders have also commended President Samia for the government's new approach on Covid-19 and pledged to join forces with the government to raise awareness on the benefits of getting vaccination. The Head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) Dr Fredrick Shoo told the `Daily News’ that they would continue to educate their followers through preaching and other teachings, as they have been doing in the past. "We at the CCT have been in the forefront on encouraging Tanzanians to take the jab, as part of efforts to reduce the number of deaths caused by Coronavirus," said Dr Shoo, who doubles as the Chairman of Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT). The Dar es Salaam Sheikh, Alhad Mussa Salum said from the day Tanzania recorded the first case of Covid-19, they have been reminding all members of the public on the importance of adhering to the preventive measures against the disease. "Some of us also took the jab on the day when President Samia launched a vaccination campaign in the country. This shows how much we are supporting our Head of State and motivate Tanzanians to get the vaccine," he said "The vaccine is safe, there is no way that our President can mislead us and bring something harmful into the country, I'm encouraging all Tanzanians to take the vaccine." Receiving the first batch of over one million Johnson Covid-19 vaccines donated by the United States government through the COVAX arrangement, WHO Country Representative, Dr Tigest Mengestu viewed that vaccination offers long lasting immunity against severe and deadly Covid-19. "With vaccines available in the country, Tanzania's armour of responding to the pandemic has been strengthened further," she noted. Tanzania is hailed for having the strongest immunization systems across the world. There is optimism that the Covid-19 vaccines would take a similar successful path as that being achieved by other vaccination drives being rolled out within the country.