THE Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE) and Helvetas Swiss Inter- cooperation in Tanzania have partnered to strengthen government efforts to enhance the quality of basic education, including improving the performance of mathematics subjects. The institutions teamed up through the project titled ‘Strengthening In-Service Teacher Mentorship and Support ‘(SITMS) that was launched over the weekend in Dodoma. DUCE and Helvetas aims to strengthen the teaching of mathematics subjects by equipping teachers with a new teaching model. The new model is emphasizing a practice-based approach that involves training experienced teachers and college tutors to mentor secondary-school teachers through peer-learning exchange, model lessons, and team teaching. According to the Principal of the project, Dr Katherine Fulgance from DUCE hinted that the project will be implemented in three countries. The University of Kibabii (KIBU) and the University of Zambia (UNZA) will implement the project in Kenya and Zambia respectively. The project is funded by the International Research Center (IRDC) of Canada. DUCE will be a lead institution. Dr Katherine expressed that the 30-months long project will be carried out into105 secondary schools and 21 teachers’ colleges across those countries; In Tanzania will work with seven teachers colleges including Mpwapwa (Dodoma) Tabora (Tabora), Monduli and Patandi (Arusha) Mandaka, and Marangu (Kilimanjaro) and Shinyanga (Shinyanga). Also, SITMS intends to advocate for positive perception about the subject, to link math concepts into real-life experience allowing the students to attach its benefits. “The project targets to capacitate in-service mathematics teachers by giving them mentorship and support through two interventions; improving teaching skills and providing an easy way to teach geometry topics which seems to be difficult to all teachers and students,” she tipped. Dr Katherine expressed that the project (SITMS) was designed through research and was developed from the School-based In-Services Teachers Training (SITT), which was implemented by Helvetas Tanzania in primary schools. “The trainers will provide the mentorship and support in schools based-basis to the teachers, and every teacher’s college will cover five nearby secondary schools; the same model will also be applied to Kenya and Zambia,” she tipped. Additionally, she tipped that the project initiated after research suggested that teachers in those countries frequently lack In-Services pieces of training that could equip them with new skills and knowledge to sharpen their teaching qualifications. Speaking on behalf of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, the Deputy Director for teachers training in the docket, Huruma Mageni said that the government welcomes the project with all two-hands aiming at pushing good performance for mathematics subjects in secondary schools. “This is a great initiative, and I hope the cooperation has been well-grounded to ensure that the shared roles are stipulated. I would like to assure you that; here in Tanzania, the project will receive maximum attention and support from both ends” he commended. Mr Mageni expressed that the government is aware of the shortage of maths teachers frequently in services training, however, several measures were applied to address the challenge including developing a Teachers Development and Management System (TDMS). He admitted that in-service teachers’ training is an ongoing process in the education sector; therefore the project approach will enable teachers to realize the purpose of professional development. On his side, Helvetas Tanzania country Director, Felix Bachmann thanked the government to commend the project and allow it to be implemented in schools. He stated that Helvetas will continue to support government efforts at improving basic education by providing relevant training to teachers to improve their teaching skills and adding up the new knowledge. However, the Chair of the SITT project Advisor Committee Magrath Sitta (MP) urged the government to push up the project so as to reach more schools in the country. “This project is very crucial to our teachers and students, the donor could not reach all schools in the country, I ask the government to push it financially to enable more teacher’s college and secondary schools to adopt that teaching model. “She urged.