HUNDREDS of thousands of Chato residents and other regions on Thursday braved the drizzle as they turned up in their numbers to commemorate the first death anniversary of former President Dr John Magufuli. President Samia Suluhu Hassan led the nation in commemorating the fifth phase president, who died on March17th 2021 at the Emilio Mzena Memorial Hospital in Dar es Salaam, where he was admitted for treatment on heart complications. The residents hailed the sixth phase government for keeping Magufuli’s dreams alive, especially by supporting all development projects he initiated. GeitaRegional Commissioner (RC), Ms Rosemary Senyamule said residents of Chato District and Geita Region at large are pleased to see all the projects are going on well as planned. “We have received a total of 100bn/- for various development projects and the execution of these projects are going on well,” she said. For the residents, construction of Chato Ferry, commonly known as ‘Chato Hapa Kazi Tu' is among projects that is evoking everlasting good memories of the late Magufuli, who always wanted to ensure that they engage in fishing business to boost their income. The residents aired their views after President Samia affirmed that construction of the Ferry, whose route is Chato to Kome Island, was 100 percent complete. According to aChato residentMs Neema Ikulathe move will boost their economy through fishing and other small business in Lake Victoria. “We are now going to fully grab entrepreneurship opportunities in Kome Island,” said Ms Ikula, adding that: She said presence of reliable transport will also encourage investments in the area, mostly at Kome mchangani beach, following the available tourist attractions in the Island. Another Chato resident, Mashauri Issa, commended the progress of Chato Zonal Referral Hospital, saying when completed; it will reduce a burden of travelling long in search of medical services. “Currently, we are forced to travel all the way to Bugando Zonal Referral Hospital in Mwanza Region to seek medical service but when this project is completed we’ll certainly breathe a sigh of relief,” Mr Issa said. He also asked Tanzanians to continue praying for the soul of the former president to continue resting in peace as well as supporting the government under President Samia to achieve all the development goals. The memorial mass was led by Geita Diocese Bishop, Fravian Kasala, who urged the Tanzanians to do justice to each other, as it was the case for the Late Dr Magufuli, who named himself a President of helpless.