KAGERA Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Professor Faustine Kamuzora has warned Tanzanians over increasing cases of Tuberculosis globally calling upon to be watchful and take all necessary precautions. Equally, he advised patients detected with TB to continue taking medicines as prescribed by medical doctors. Speaking on behalf of the RC, during the commemoration of the World TB Day held at Uhuru Stadium in Bukoba Municipal Council, Mr Isaya Tendega said that last year about 2,955 patients were detected with TB implying 92 per cent of the targeted 3,000 people. He explained that out of the number, 394 TB patients were in Kyerwa district, Biharamulo (366), Missenyi (215), Ngara (316), Karagwe (345), Bukoba Rural (394) while 484 others were from Bukoba Municipal Council. Prof Kamuzora elaborated that according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a total of 1.3million people died from TB during 2020 while Tanzania is among 30 countries with high TB burden, “he said. He applauded partners including the Management for Development and Health (MDH) and AMREF for supporting the government efforts in improving the health sector. MDH Project Manager, Dr Isaac Laizer, on his part, explained that since 2004 the institution has been cooperating with the Ministry of Health in fighting HIV/AIDS. “Through the Global Fund and AMREF we have also been focusing on TB disease through the identification and investigating TB Cases while also supporting patients detected with TB,” he said. He said MDH had already established branches in four regions namely Geita, Tabora, Kagera and Dar es Salaam. Data from Health Management Information System (HMIS) indicates that communicable diseases are still the major cause of morbidity and mortality in the country driven by HIV epidemic with national prevalence of 5 per cent in the population aged between 15 and 49. TB continued to be among the top ten cause of death and among admission aged five years and above in the country. A total of    69,623 TB cases of all forms were notified in 2017, which is an increase of 5.6 per cent or 3,715 cases compared to the year 2016. Among the cases notified, new and relapse cases were 68,273 (98 per cent) of which 28,687 (41 per cent) were bacteriological confirmed. Dar es Salaam City has remained a major contributor of TB cases notification in Tanzania. Its contribution makes 21 per cent of all cases notified in the country. There was considerable regional variation as in the previous years with 50 per cent of cases being contributed by six regions namely Mwanza, Mbeya, Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Arusha and Tanga.