CALM and diplomatic. These are two perfect attributes President Samia Suluhu Hassan possesses as she clocks one year in office today. In her maiden speech at the Head of State, President Samia, through her reconciliatory tone, expressed her intent of rekindling Tanzania’s international relations and reputation, with Kenya being her firstdestination on her bucket list. The two-day visit signaled the strengthening of ties between the two East African neighbours after years of feuding. In 2017, the two countries were at odds when Tanzania police set ablaze 6,400 chicks for allegedly being imported illegally from Kenya. The chicks were impounded at the northern Namanga border post before being set alight. A few months later, diplomatic tensions threatened to flare up over pastures for cattle belonging to the Maasai community who live on the two sides of the border. In March, last year, Kenya banned maize from Tanzania, claiming that it contained high levels of mycotoxins that exceed safety limits. Ms Samia’s approach to mending and strengthening relations between the two countries, came with some comical charm as she played with her last name Suluhu and Kenya’s president’s name Uhuru Kenyatta, while addressing the Kenyan parliament. “We have agreed that our health ministers should draw up a programme to facilitate border crossings and controls,” she said. Her visit saw the two countries sign a deal for a gas pipeline that will run between the coastal cities of Mombasa and Dar es Salaam, with her Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta asserting the two countries were ready to improve their relations. Likewise, during the meeting, President Kenyatta called upon Tanzanian companies to invest in the neighboring country. Mr Kenyatta was categorical that the investors were welcomed to set up business ventures in the East African nation, maintaining that they were free to operate in his country without visas or work permits. “We would like to see more companies and businessmen come to invest in Kenya, as long as they abide by the laws of the land,” stated Mr Kenyatta. Mr Kenyatta’s assertion was music to ears of Tanzanian businessmen and entrepreneurs, considering that the number of business ventures owned and run by Tanzanians in Kenya stood at 30. In contrast, there are 500 Kenyan companies in Tanzania. Fast forward, the visit is paying dividends as the two countries have now agreed to resolve 30 Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) that jeopardized trade between them. According to a joint communiqué of a 5th bilateral meeting between the two countries to address issues affecting trade, some of the issues resolved on the Tanzanian side include facilitating clearance of soft drinks such as juices, removal of inspection fees for processed products with standardization mark including wheat flour. The two parties further agreed to grant cement products from Tanzania a preferential treatment, where it was also established that Tanzania had started implementing the Single Window System which has significantly reduced delays in clearance of pineapple juice produced in Kenya. “Tanzania has streamlined some of the standards regulating institutions such as TBS and TMDA and agreed to expedite verification and clearance of perishable goods in accordance to EAC Customs Management Act Matters as well as increased the validity period of permits for veterinary products from 15 to 30 days,” the communiqué read in part.