THE Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) Acting Managing Editor, Ms Tuma Abdallah has lauded President Samia Suluhu Hassan for marking one year in office and the government’s continued support for the institution. She said during President Samia’s first year in office, the government continued to support TSN in its operations, and as a result, the institution has remained as a bridge between the government and members of the public. Ms Tuma said in the past one year, TSN, which is the publisher of Daily News, Sunday News, HabariLeo, HabariLeo Jumapili, Spoti Leo and Daily News Digital, managed to publish government information and other educational articles on time. “All these have been done with regards to journalism profession and ethics. We have also been encouraging readers and Tanzanians at large to continue engaging in economic activities,” she said. Adding: “I’m commending President Samia for the good job she is doing in leading our country. Under her administration, TSN has received all the necessary support needed for the prosperity of the institution.” According to her, some of the achievements that TSN recorded was the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Muhammad Jahangir Freight Services LLC (MJFSL) during the Expo Dubai 2020 held in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) last month. The MoU will create mutual cooperation and partnership in several key areas, including sourcing of raw materials (printing consumables) and spare parts on favorable terms. Under the pact, MJFSL will embark on provision of freight services for printing consumables and spare parts, provision of freight services for finished goods and stand as TSN agent in business deals when needs arise. Also, the partnership includes terms and conditions favourable for mutual benefit, exchange contacts on the best suppliers of raw materials and spare parts whenever required, as well as sharing information on available and emerging business opportunities in either country. Ms Tuma said TNS is in final stages of signing other MoUs with three institutions as part of continued efforts to expand the company’s business. She said TSN also managed to improve its products that include newspapers and digital platforms that have increased the number of online readers to 260 million from 120 million that were record last year. “The readers are from within and outside the country,” she said, noting that the company has also exploited business opportunities in printing press and media consultancy. She went on to explain that TSN also managed to strengthen cooperation with stakeholders from different sectors, including private and public institutions, as well as various diplomatic missions in the country that plays a role linking the company with other business. Ms Tuma also thanked the government for supplying TSN with a modern printer that is in the procurement process. “The government also supported the company by appointing board members for effective operations,” explained Ms Tuma. She also commended the government for transferring information sector to the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology, saying the move has helped in improving productivity of the information docket. In another development, the TSN boss said the company is planning to construct a multimedia studio that will be used in production of different programmes and documentaries. “The studio will also be used commercially for the sake of generating more revenue from the investment, ‘’ she said, assuring that TSN will continue doing a wonderful job of informing the public through the company’s outlets. Again, she said the company will continue capitalising on digital media, in line with meeting the current demands that are the results of advancement of science and technology.