ANALYSTS have said President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s meeting with the Chairman of the Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema), Mr Freeman Mbowe has opened a new chapter on the political environment in the country. The meeting was also considered as a right approach on building national unity for the benefit of creating harmony among Tanzanians for the greater interest of the country. The pundits aired their opinions in reaction to the meeting that President Samia held with Mr Mbowe on Friday evening at the Dar es Salaam State House. The meeting was held just a few hours after Mr Mbowe and three other co-accused persons were discharged by the Corruption and Economic Crime Division of the High Court after the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) submitted a nolle prosequi notice under Section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). A statement issued by the Director of State House Presidential Communications, Ms  Zuhura Yunus said that during the meeting, President Samia insisted on cooperation and respect for each other by upholding justice. “After he was discharged today (Friday) I thought it was important to meet him today, one of the issues that we discussed is the need for cooperation, respecting each other  in line with upholding justice for the sake of bringing development in our country,” said the Head of State. For his part, Mr Mbowe thanked President Samia for being concerned and inviting him for the talks, saying they have agreed to continue building the country in a harmonized manner. Speaking to the ‘Sunday News’ yesterday, political commentators said the meeting came as a surprise to many Tanzanians. “It was quick and so unexpected, but the meeting was perfect, it has sent a message that President Samia is determined to create national unity despite different ideologies among political parties,” said Ms Rachel Yusuph Mariam, a lecturer at the Tumaini University Dar es Salaam College (Tudarco). She views the move as proof that President Samia is walking the talk on her determination to unify the country. “This is a sign that the country is going in the right direction, urging Tanzanians to support efforts that are being taken by national leaders in unifying the nation,” she explained further. She further noted that the President’s speech is a reflection of what is deep in her heart and that what comes out of the mouth is derived from the heart. For his part, a commentator on politics and current affairs, Mr Alex Dominic was optimistic that the meeting has created a space for peace, unity and tranquility in the country. “I saw it coming but I didn’t expect it to be held this soon, President Samia did it right to meet him on the same day he was discharged,” he told this paper. Adding; “We are expecting more to come, and since they have agreed to conduct civilized politics then there will be mutual understanding for the greater interest of the democracy.” According to him, the meeting was a gesture of strong will for forging political consensus. The meeting opened up a new chapter in the country’s politics and created a room for great reconciliation, dialogue and consensus.