PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has called on national unity and proper utilisation of the resources to improve the economy at individual and national level. She said despite the achievements that have been recorded so far, the country still has a long way to go on attaining the desirable level of development. She said to achieve desirable level of development requires teamwork and commitment of all Tanzanians. The President issued the statement separately when she made a phone call to organisers of the forums held to discuss achievements that have been recorded during her first year in the top most Office. The first event was held in Dar es Salaam on Friday evening at the Mlimani City Hall, while the second one was held in Dodoma on Saturday at the University of Dodoma (UDOM). Speaking on Friday in a phone call to the Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology Nape Nnauye, President Samia said the government is also taking a number of initiatives to complete projects that had stuck for a long time. She mentioned the Same-Mwanga-Korogwe water project as among the schemes that the government is working on to ensure timely completion. “The government will ensure this project is completed on time for the people of Mwanga, Same and Korogwe districts in Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions to enjoy reliable supply of water service,” she explained. She thus called for continued support from members of the public to support the government initiatives on execution of projects for improved provision of social services. “We have to make better use of all the resources in bringing development at individual and national level,” she emphasized. She raised the same call on Saturday, when she made a phone call to Prof Bernadeta Killian, who was moderating a forum held at UDOM. At the event that was live broadcast, President Samia said the achievements that have been recorded so far are the results of teamwork and commitment to ensure the targets are realised. “I’m even surprised by the level of achievements that have been attained; we have to maintain the spirit as still there is  a lot of work  that needs to be  done,” she  explained. During her administration, President Samia has managed to create a friendly taxation system, including reducing bureaucracy in work permits issuance and approval of investment projects. Having opened up the country, the economy recorded a growth rate of 4.9 per cent in the first three quarters of 2021 compared with 4.8 per cent in the corresponding period in 2020, as per the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) data. The pace of private sector credit growth was maintained after   recording an annual growth of 10 per cent in the year ending January 2022, higher than 2.6 per cent recorded in similar period in 2021. As for the performance of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), latest official information  showed the Authority recorded revenue collections amounting to 610bn/- during the first seven months of this financial year (2021/2022), which is 93.1 per cent against the target of collecting 655bn/- during the period. It is also during the past one year of President Samia when TPA struck a handsome deal worth 500 million US dollars with DP World, an Emirati multinational Logistics Company based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. According to data from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Investment, during one of President Samia’s administrations, the country registered a total of 294 investment projects worth 18.75tri/-. The investment projects are expected to create 62,301 employment opportunities. Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) registered 23 projects, while the Mining Commission recorded five projects. Moreover, during the Expo 2020 Dubai, Tanzania signed a total of 37 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs), which were signed during the Tanzania Business and Investment Forum in Dubai and aim to generate investments worth around 20tri/- and create over 204,575 jobs over the next four years.