THE Women in Management (WIMA) has officially announced the 2022 awards, marking the third year of honouring inspiring senior women leaders in Africa. The 2022 WIMA awards ceremony will be held on March 26th 2022 in Dar es Salaam. The move marks third year in a row that the awards have been hosted by the organisation, which recognises and celebrates women who have excelled in their careers, businesses, and everyday lives while inspiring others. During a press conference held in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, WIMA Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ms Naike Moshi said there is still a huge gap in senior level and women applying for senior level roles. “We saw a huge gap in senior level and women applying for senior level roles and even low placement rates for senior women. While both genders look for jobs in the same way, they apply for them in different ways. According to a research, women believe they must meet 100 per cent of the criteria in order to apply for jobs, whereas men typically apply after meeting about 60 per cent. “To combat this, we created the Women In Management initiative to promote and increase visibility of senior- level women in management. The concept of highlighting 50 senior women in management in our social media pages ‘Career Women Wednesday’ arose. “This generated a lot of buzz and traction by inspiring emerging leaders and demonstrating to them that it is possible for them to advance in the careers, particularly for female professionals and to date we have about 100 Alumni’s listed under the Top 50 Women in Management initiative,” she said. She noted that WIMA awards were created to recognise outstanding women in various fields and the organisations that support them. The annual awards recognise and applaud outstanding leadership, inspiration, vision and innovation in organizations that contribute to women’s economic advancement, covering all major economic sectors and awarding business at all levels, from SME to national. Ms Moshi said WIMA awards are aimed to create a large database of highly qualified female professionals from a variety of industries to serve as board members and C-Level executives in the private sector. These awards also assist career women developing leadership capacity, increasing their visibility and representation in the marketplace, and providing data and research services to investors, regulators and other institutions interested in gender diversity,” Ms Moshi explained. WIMA awards 2022 is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), whose Resident Representative, Ms Christine Musisi said the organization is committed to making gender equality, a basic human right and a necessity for a sustainable world. “UNDP is delighted to support the 2022 WIMA awards…we are committed to making gender equality, a basic human right and a necessity for a sustainable world, a reality,” Ms Musisi said. She said women’s empowerment and gender equality are vital to achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that envisions a world of universal respect for human rights and human dignity. “As we celebrate these women, we believe their voices will give a big push for other women to have a voice, stand up to what they believe in and not be afraid to soar higher no matter the barriers they face every day,” Ms Musisi said. Furthermore, the Executive Director of the European Business Group in Tanzania, Ms Cikay Richards stated that WIMA initiative opened many closed doors for women as well as corporates to find best talents and it has delivered profitable results to the country economy. “It’s not just about the award; it’s about uncovering women’s hidden successes and bringing light in order to recognise their silent leadership and encourage them to mentor more men and women toward gender equality, which is a SDG goal number five of the Sustainable Global goals. “We believe recognising women who have excelled in their chosen fields leaves a legacy that inspires others. These awards challenge traditional views of women’s roles as business leaders and encourage companies to take action to create more gender equal workplaces, and it is for this reason that we have chosen to join hands and support the WIMA initiative” said Ms Richards.