SINCE independence in December 9, 1961 to-date, Tanzania has made several efforts and commitments to improve social services delivery for her people and that included President Samia Suluhu Hassan contributing immensely to the development of the sector during her one year work in office. In a continued effort to build an educated, learning and healthy society, the government has continuously invested in infrastructure for schools and colleges, health facilities as well as water services. The number of primary schools, secondary schools and teacher training colleges has increased over the years to meet the growing population’s demand. Effective access to a functioning and well-equipped social service is a prerequisite to improving the quality of life and promoting the wellbeing of all Tanzanians. Remarkable strides have been registered in delivering social services during President Samia’s first year work in office, with a mammoth sum of 1.49tri/- being channeled towards improving education, health and road infrastructures. On several occasions President Samia has emphasized on proper execution of the projects and spending of public funds, to ensure sustainable economic development for the current and future generations. In September last year, Tanzania received about 1.3tri/- Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), meant to address the impact brought about by Covid-19. The monies were directed to be used to implement development projects in the education, water, health and tourism sectors. School infrastructures During the one year work of President Samia’s leadership, the education sector received 662.32bn/-, which has been used to build 257 new secondary schools and nine primary schools. The funds were also used to build 18,219 classrooms for primary, satellite, and secondary schools, as well as finish the construction of 4,525 primary and secondary schools classrooms. The funds were also utilized to build 1,399 laboratory rooms, 568 toilets for primary and secondary schools, and 170 dormitories for primary and secondary school projects. Constructions of 42 teachers’ houses for primary and secondary schools have also been completed and 11 laboratories for secondary schools. Apart from that, the government has also completed the construction of six halls and four administration blocks for secondary schools and the completion of four old primary and secondary schools. Furthermore, a sum of 72.96bn/- is expected to be received for the period March to June 2022, which will be used for the construction of 300 classrooms for model preprimary schools, 221 laboratory rooms, construction of 3,468 classrooms for primary and secondary schools, construction of 20 dormitories for special needs students and for the renovation of 346 primary school teachers’ centres. In order to ensure that all students attend school, the government will construct more Advanced Level classrooms in ten selected schools. Health Sector improvements. nts Another achievement during President Samia’s leadership is the enhancement of health services, with a budget of 234.41bn/- set aside to boost health service delivery across the country. Through the funds 288 health centres, 28 new hospitals, 26 Intensive Care Units (ICUs) facilities and 80 emergency medical departments have been constructed. The funds were also spent on the construction of one epidemiology centre, construction of 150 houses for hospital workers in different peripheral councils and procurement of medical equipment for 31 hospitals. The government completed the construction of 615 dispensaries, 68 district council hospitals, whose execution started in the 2018/19 financial year. The funds will also be used to procure 195 ambulances, Oxygen Ventilation System, Digital Radiation Machine, and 212 vehicles as well as conduct short-term training for staff and temporary employees. Water Services In the first year of President Samia’s presidency, the government increased water service delivery in rural areas from 70.1 per cent to 72.3 per cent, and in urban areas from 84 per cent to 86 per cent. The Ministry of Water was allocated 646bn/- for the 2021/2022 financial year where they have already received 480bn/- which is equivalent to 74 per cent, compared to the previous 50 per cent they used to receive in the past years. President Samia has also laid the foundation stones for Mugango-Kiabakari-Butiama Water Supply Projects worth 70bn/- and water treatment plant in Bunda worth 10.6bn/-. The government has also dished out 139bn/- for implementing various water projects out of 1.3tr/- Covid-19 relief package. The funds will be utilized to construct one water project in each of the country’s constituencies. As part of the endeavour to boost water availability, the funds will also be utilized to acquire 25 drillings and construction machinery, which will be distributed to each region. All water projects are aimed to achieve the government’s set target of 95 and 85 per cent of people having access to safe and clean water in urban and rural areas by 2025, respectively. Out of 177 stalled projects, 126 have been revived in President Samia’s first year; the remaining projects will be revived by June this year. In addition, the ministry intends to carry out 1,176 water projects in rural areas and 114 in urban areas. To date, a total of 463 water projects have already been completed, with the Chekereni project in Arusha, worth 520bn/- commenced operation as per President Samia directives