RESIDENT of Mtakuja village at Inyonga Township in Mlele District, Katavi region, Ancient John (32) has committed suicide shortly after allegedly killing his wife identified as Jeniveva Timotheo (29). Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC) Ali Makame Hamad (pictured) confirmed the death of the couple that occurred on March 2nd, this year at night at Mtakuja village at their matrimonial house. According to the RPC, the husband left behind a message, stating the reason that caused him to brutally kill his wife before he took his own life with a mosquito net. “In his message John said he voluntarily committed suicide after killing his wife (Jeneveva) by slaughtering her,” police said. Narrating the incident, RPC said on the material night the husband locked up the door of their room before he slaughtered his wife. “After committing the crime John decided to commit suicide using the mosquito net in the same room,” police said. “Preliminary investigations show that the motive of the killing is jealousy on the part of the husband after he accused his wife for cheating on him by having extra marital affairs,” added the RPC. The regional police boss urged members of the public to refrain from taking laws at their hands, instead they should report to relevant authorities for arbitration. In another incident Police in Katavi region have nabbed an Ethiopian national, Mamshi Abagashi Seleko (33) for entering the country illegally. Equally, police have seized a Toyota Land Cruiser V -8VX car in which the illegal migrant was travelling in. According to police report, the vehicle was cruising to Mpanda, Katavi region. RPC Mr Hamad confirmed the apprehension of the illegal immigrant who took the ride in a Toyota Land Cruiser V -8VX with registration numbers T 743 DMA, property of resident of Dar es Salaam, Mwaipopo Mark. “The illegal immigrant was caught at Mirumba Village, Mpimbwe Council in Mlele District heading to Mpanda Town,” he added. He further said that law enforcers have mounted a manhunt for the fugitive driver of the Toyota Land Cruiser V -8VX after he disappeared from the scene of incident.