SOMETHING remarkable has swept Tanzania in recent years, enriching literally some emerging companies far beyond even what optimists would have imagined a few decades ago. Tanzania’s quest for wealth is the epic story that has energized its business companies to benefit from globalization and an emphasis on exports that are happily consumed by other countries. Leaders of Tanzanian companies such as TCCIA Investment PLC see business as a national calling; they are men of broad vision, who are fiercely nationalistic and usually obsessed with micro-managing details. “Tanzania is a very attractive country to anyone with entrepreneurial spirit. Not only do we have abundant resources but now we have the right macro-economic environment; and as we move to the inevitable forces of regional and globalization, the country will be progressively more open to dynamic external entrepreneurship,” says Mr Peter Kifunguomali, the TCCIA Investment PLC Chief Executive Officer. “In the global environment, one cannot deny the fact that foreign investment has a major and positive role to play in stimulating the process of economic development in our country. Simultaneously, one should not ignore the need for citizen empowerment measures to drive the masses of this country into the mainstream economic activity,” he explains. TCCIA Investment PLC is public liability company established by shareholders in 1999 to expand financing sources to participate in the ownership and control of the national economy. It is also one of the biggest shareholders of the ubiquitous NMB Bank, and is listed with the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) and regulated and supervised by the Capital Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA). This growing organisation has a story to tell to the world on the need of ensuring that companies operating in Tanzania are encouraged and not scared to continue in this process of economic development. “But whatever happens must happen in our involvement in one way or another and, above all, we must share equitably the benefits of all economic activities which are carried out within our borders,” Mr Kifunguomali says. “I am encouraged by President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s ambition to create closer trading partnerships and investment opportunities with other countries since Tanzania has expanded business internationally as an exciting prospect as it opens up new opportunities for business growth and development in a new market,” he explains. President Samia celebrates her first anniversary in power on the 19th of this month. Since her ascendancy to the presidency, she has introduced what some economists have coined as “Samianomics.” These are the socio-economic policies that make available to Tanzanians a fair and equal opportunity to exploit national resources in the struggle towards economic liberation and collective prosperity. The Dubai Expo at which Tanzania made its presence is a vivid example of President Samia’s initiatives for attracting investors in every field of human activity. “We need to open up and do good business with as many countries as possible. The country needs to find untapped global demand for its existing outputs, primarily agricultural and increasingly industrial,” Mr Kifunguomali asserts. With a young and smartphone-empowered generation, digital entrepreneurship has the potential to flourish and bring the world’s markets to Tanzanian shores. This creates not only incremental markets but also jobs, training and learning, followed by more investments – therefore, the cycles of demand-induced economic growth,” emphasizes Mr Kifunguomali. With Tanzania saying it wants mutually beneficial partnerships that move beyond aid and attract quality investment to drive green, sustainable growth and create jobs, companies such as TCCIA Investment PLC have a unique opportunity to help build and shape the future of business in the country. “This great East African country has much to offer ambitious global firms, the world’s major investors, regulators, innovators and multinational businesses as the global financial gateway for investment and expertise,” Mr Kifunguomali says. “We are at war. It is an economic war which calls for the total mobilization of our resources in preparing our people for competition with other countries globally and within our domestic market. God gave us a large country with huge amounts of diversified resources. There is plenty for each and every one of us.” the TCCIA Investment PLC CEO contends. Nearly 65 years ago, Tanzania’s founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere expressed the same view in the then colonial Legislative Council (today’s National Assembly): “I feel we can only develop by laying emphasis on the resources which we have in this country; and our chief resources are our natural resources; and our chief resources in this country is our manpower.” Against this background, TCCIA Investment PLC has taken deliberate measures to attract business-minded, well-educated and exposed cadres to deal effectively with micro-economic management in the belief that people can achieve anything when presented with the right development and growth opportunities. That is why in its 2020- 2022 plan the company has set goals of diversifying its revenue streams by setting up a Bond Trading Desk and a Fund Management Unit to drive growth. As of December 31 last year, the company reported a profit of TZS 797.12m/- higher than that of the comparative quarter in 2020 of TZS 424.23m/- With crippling challenges of lack of funds for investment, tight competition in the bond market and lack of opportunities within the Tanzania capital market, TCCIA Investment PLC is looking for opportunities within other East African capital markets and new investment opportunities in other sectors apart from financial services. As the company’s Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Fortunatus Magambo explains, with the excellent performance enjoyed by TCCIA Investment PLC, there is need to stimulate the enterprise spirit of the majority Tanzanians, mobilise the youth and change the mindset of the educated political elite and bureaucratic leadership to respond to the conducive environment of doing business under President Samia’s leadership. In today’s turbulent business environment, competition is fierce. Success or failure hinges on whether all citizens – large and petty traders, peasant farmers, and the very few corporate entities -- are involved in their country’s economic management. Companies such as TCCIA Investment PLC could play this critical role if given government support.