THE Bank of Tanzania (BoT) announced yesterday that the country’s economy is continuing to grow as a result of sufficient liquidity in the economy and stable money market interest rates. Their prediction is backed up by inflation which continued to be within range in the near term and money supply continued to grow backed by monetary stance. The BoT Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) also said foreign exchange reserves remained adequate, covering about 5.9 months of imports, well above the EAC benchmark of 4 months. “The MPC noted with satisfaction that monetary policy conduct in January and February 2022 maintained appropriate liquidity in the economy and money market interest rate stability,” the BoT said. “The MPC also approved BoT to continue adopting an accommodative monetary policy to boost enterprises and investment, subject to inflation path in the remaining fiscal year 2021/22,” according to a BOT statement. It further reads that the prices of goods and services have risen in recent months, but inflation remained within the target of 3-5 per cent for Tanzania and is projected to remain within the targets in the near term. This will be supported by adequate food supply and sustained prudent macroeconomic policies. Upward risks have elevated due to rising commodity prices in the world market, attributable to supply chain disruptions and geopolitical tensions in Eastern Europe. MPC held its 219th Ordinary Meeting on 24 March 2022, to assess the implementation of monetary policy and the performance of the domestic and global economy. “The performance of the economy was satisfactory in 2021 and projected to continue improving in 2022, owing to the normalisation of business and investment activities after the pandemic,” says MPC. The MPC noted with satisfaction that private sector credit growth was strong, at 11.9 per cent in February 2022, owing to improving business conditions from adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, monetary policy measures adopted to increase bank lending and lower interest rates, and supportive fiscal policy. According to MPC, revenue performance in the first seven months of the fiscal year 2021/22 was broadly satisfactory, attributable to the recovery of economic activities, improved tax compliance and enhanced revenue mobilisation efforts. Given the ongoing geopolitical tensions in Eastern Europe and global supply chain disruptions, the MPC will continue to closely monitor developments in the economy and take appropriate measures when the need arises. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic and ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, commodity prices such as fuel, wheat, and fertiliser have skyrocketed. For instance, wheat freight on board (FoB) price pre-Covid-19 level was 100,000/- per 100kg but rose to 140,000/- as of 14 March. Also, Palm oil was 3,300/- per litre to 5,600/-, while fertiliser DAP price doubled from between 40,000/- and 57,000/- to 110,000/- per 50kg bag. Crude oil climbed up from 140,000/- to 267,071/- a barrel while petrol, diesel and kerosene doubled from between 1.2m/- and 1.4m/- to between 2.4m/- and 2.5m/- per tonne. Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba said a week ago that in the coming budget the government will make some fiscal measures and cut some taxes on fuel, construction equipment and fertiliser to reduce the impact of imported inflation. He said the cost of living currently the society is experiencing was not the outcome of the country’s fiscal policy failure but rather external shocks. “To reduce the impact of import inflation and as per the President Samia Suluhu Hassan directive, we see the need to make some tax readjustment to cool the current situation,” he said.