POLITICS of succession are difficult, particularly in countries without stable leadership, where the nationals do not believe and observe the rule of law. They become more complicated, especially when a president passes away while still in office, and what follows is power rivalry, internal conflicts and such stuff. A glance in this scenario tells you that Tanzania is not in this bracket and almost a year ago, after the sudden passing on of its Fifth Phase Government President, Dr John Magufuli at a Dar es Salaam hospital on March 17, 2021, everyone from the grassroots to the national level, respected the law and still peace prevailed as they mourned him. What followed was the law taking its course and swearing in the new Head of State on March 19th and that was Samia Suluhu Hassan. Once in State control, President Samia brought together Tanzanians with the slogan of ‘Kazi iendelee’ that loosely translates as work to continue and preached unity, peace and togetherness to avoid divisions. Her speech after the inauguration touched many, and people are now assured that life will be coming back to normalcy after the huge loss of a great leader, Dr Magufuli. From that time until the present, almost a year on, Tanzanians expressed a new hope and work continues. For a year now, it is evident that President Samia has uplifted the nation in many sectors as well as winning back the trust of many nations and international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank and the World Health Organization (WHO), which now work hand in hand with the government in health and developments fronts. While IMF has granted Tanzania concessional loans in trillions of shillings, it means that the loans are extended on terms substantially more generous than any market loans. The World Bank goes on to monitor the country’s good economic moves that have made it graduate as a lower middle-income country. The loans are a result of President Samia’s decision to take measures in controlling Covid-19 by directing national, regional and district leaders to see into it that measures are in place to check the pandemic, such as wearing face masks, social distancing and the biggest move has been to initiate vaccinations countrywide. The move was positively received by WHO adding that it was more than ready to work with Tanzania on that front. The IMF funds have been used to, among other things, improve the learning and teaching environment in the country. Some 15,000 classrooms for primary and secondary schools were constructed that would enable social distancing but also enable children to take their places on desks. She will be steering the nation forward until her term expires in 2025 and possibly beyond, as she has been already tipped to be entrusted with the highest office of the land for another five-year stint. Her speeches, from time to time have been consolidating Tanzanians in unity as they are handsomely contextualized and basically, she leads the nation in unity, meeting and holding talks with the opposition leaders as well as religious leaders. To show that Tanzania comes first, she recently met and held talks with the Chairman of the Main Opposition party – Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema), Mr Freeman Mbowe right after he was acquitted by the High Court - Corruption and Economic Crimes Division where he was charged with terrorism-related counts. President Samia has been vocal on economic diplomacy, touting Tanzanian envoys abroad as well as ministers and all officers responsible for investments and trade to create conducive investment and attract more investors and increase Tanzania's business with other nations. She has earned accolades for what she did in her foreign trips, including the recent ones in Belgium, France and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates where there was Dubai Expo 2020. She won the hearts of many investors and several contracts were inked by Tanzania and different companies and organizations, where Tanzania bagged approximately 17.3tri/- deals. President Samia’s speeches from time to time have lots and mean much to investors and prospective ones. There is no worry for investors and those who wish to come to the country for that purpose because they will be given opportunities they need and enjoy security at its best. The soft-spoken President Samia was sworn in as the East African country’s first female president after the sudden death of Dr John Magufuli, who was steering the fifth phase government. Commenting, Tanzania Mineral Dealers' Association (TAMIDA) Chairman, Mr Sammy Mollel said President Samia’s speech after taking the highest office of the land brought the business community back on track and they will be with her in rebuilding the wounded nation. He said that the best way to honour the late Dr Magufuli is to support President Samia and add value to Tanzanite minerals that are only earthed in Mirerani, Tanzania. It is the late President Magufuli who initiated value addition by constructing a perimeter wall around the deposits and setting up mineral hubs. Mr Mollel further said the association will never forget the late Dr Magufuli’s contribution and support to the sector, making it rapidly to the next level and adding value to the minerals produced in the country, including setting up processing centres before exports of the minerals. On his part, Alpha Group Limited businessman, Mr Karim Dalia, said he will remember the late Dr Magufuli for his unwavering stand injustice to all, getting a close look on tax payments and his love for the common people. Mohammed Enterprises Arusha Regional Manager, Mr Ali Manji hailed President Samia’s speech as a unifying force, saying he was sure she would lead the nation to prosperity, and so far, that has been proved in her one year in office.