THE sixth phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan has recorded tremendous achievements in addressing cases of gender based violence during the past one year of her work in office. This was revealed here on Monday by the Minister for Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups, Dr Doroth Gwajima, during the press conference to highlight achievements recorded by the ministry during the past one year. Dr Gwajima mentioned another progress as strong partnership between the government and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), in which the latter have injected 1.1tri/- to facilitate implementation of development local projects. She detailed further that the ministry has launched an online arbitration and psychological services, whereas as of last month some 203 people accessed the services. Moreover, she said in dealing with gender based violence among women and children, a total of 1,843 committees for women and children security were formed at village and local authorities level between March 2021 and March, this year. Formation of the committees brings a total number of the working groups to 18,186 out of the 20,750 target countrywide by June, 2022. Dr Gwajima said in strengthening partnership with NGOs, President Samia launched a joint platform in September 2021 in which the non-state players presented reports on their contribution to the national development. The performance reports showed that the NGOs made significant contribution in the national development by injecting a total of 1.1tri/-, which was channeled to projects in areas such as health and education. Part of the funds was also spent on social security, economic empowerment in addition to good governance, environment, water, gender and human rights. The investment benefited 49,697,214 people and created 8,918 employment opportunities between March, 2021 and February, 2022. During the period under review, the ministry registered new 1,229 NGOs. Dr Gwajima stated further that owing to increased cases of depression and stress among members of the community which results into mental illness, the online psychosocial platform has been a blessing to a number of marriages, family matters and relationships for students, workers and community at large. Regarding sexual violence in institutions of higher learning, the minister said seven gender desks were set up at seven institutions in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Morogoro, Iringa, Arusha and Mwanza Regions. Elaborating, the minister said the government has come up with Community-Based Early Childhood Development Centres for inclusive upbringing of children aged between two to five years. “A total of 30-model centres were established in Dar es Salaam and Dodoma regions between March, 2021 and February 2020,” she said. Adding; “Also, the National Children Home was constructed on the outskirts of Dodoma city courtesy of funding from Abbott Fund which provided 12.7bn/- for the project which has a capacity to accommodate 250 children at ago.” Dr Gwajima noted as well that the government has put in place favourable environment for public and private sectors which has enabled an increase of children centres from 130 to 214 during the past one year. Giving the way forward, the Minister said the ministry will review policies, laws and guidelines to meet cross-cutting issues among stakeholders falling under the ministry. “We will put more weight towards sectoral coordination to ensure that the context of community development and social welfare walk in hand in their implementation to attain the needed development goals,” she stated. Dr Gwajima as well pledged to engage stakeholders on using digital solutions to attain desired targets.