OVER 11,000 pupils in ten public primary schools in Dar es Salaam will get training on road safety aimed at reducing accidents near schools. The three-week training under the road safety programme for primary schools, which is run by the AMEND organization in collaboration with the Traffic Police Division, was launched yesterday in the city. The road safety programme for school started in 2019 and every year the programme reaches out to over ten schools. Officiating the launching of the training, Traffic Police Commander SACP Wilbroad Mutafungwa said the training programme dubbed ‘Mahakama ya Watoto’ (juvenile court). He recalled that the World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that nearly 3,700 people die in road crashes every day globally. In Africa, the number of injuries from road accidents has kept on increasing due to development growth. In Tanzania, statistics indicate that in 2021 a total of 1,245 people lost their lives and 2,023 others were injured in road accidents. The reports had it that out of them, 56 students died and 65 others were injured during that period. “Of recent, the Traffic Police division has taken serious measures to control road accidents, including provision of road safety education to different groups of road users including pupils who have been major victims,” SACP Mutafungwa stated. In continuing with public education, The Traffic police, in collaboration with the AMEND, intends to implement the training programme, with target being pupils with special needs. “Among other things, the training would involve face to face interviews between pupils and drivers who found to have broken the traffic laws while using roads near schools,” he explained. He further said the programme is expected also to spread education to parents through educated pupils. On his part, AMEND’s country manager Simon Kalolo said the training programme will cover all 5 councils of Dar es Salaam and will also focus on schools in needy of infrastructures for road safety, particularly those allocated near roads. “Apart from training, we will look at schools in need of road safety infrastructures such as road signs,” he elaborated. He said after the training, they will issue certificates to trained pupils.