Simba Supply Chain Solutions Limited (SSCS) has hailed President Samia Suluhu Hassan's efforts to support the transport sector in just one year since she entered into power. The company’s chairman, Mr Azim Dewji, said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that many changes have been made during her short period in high office. “President Samia has established good relations with our neighbours through strategic foreign policy with business in mind as reflected in her international but most importantly regional visits to neighbouring countries,” he said. Mr Dewji was speaking during the Simba Bingwa Achievement Awards and internal performance appraisal programme supported by 383 talented Tanzanians in the company. He added, “After the ties with our neighbour’s improved, businesses volume has improved and the supply chains through the Tanzanian ports have been adjusting to keep up with greater demands and volumes,” Dewji has further said that during her one year in office, land linked countries are now using the Dar es Salaam Port instead of the neighbouring ports due to the business friendliness, political stability that President Samia has championed on behalf of her countrymen. On his part, Ilala District Commissioner Ng'wilabuza Ludigija commended the efforts done by SSCS and its associates’ companies to recognise the employees’ efforts with awards on a public platform. He said this is an effective investment and such business innovation should occur in both Private and Public institutions to align human capital. The Ilala DC has also congratulated Azim Dewji’s companies namely Simba Supply Chain Solution (SSCS), Simba Logistics Limited, and Simba Trailer Manufacturing Limited for employing over 383 workers. “As the government, we are congratulating the group of companies on good governance and by giving employments opportunities to Tanzanians, especially when we profile 99.9 per cent of all workers here are locals,” he said. Speaking at the event, the Dar es Salaam City’s Lord Mayor Omary Kumbilamoto said: “On my behalf and the City Council, we have to say thanks to the SSCS by providing 0.3 per cent of their levies to support developments in Dar es Salaam including constructions of dispensaries, schools and many more.”