As the NBC Premier League resumes soon, Young Africans test their guns against Mafunzo in a build-up fixture to uplift match fitness of their players at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam today. The hosts lined up the encounter as part of tuning themselves before facing Azam in the 19th round of the Premier League at the same venue on April 6th. In his remarks recently, Yanga's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli said the friendly game  will help to restore match fitness to the players after the end of the FIFA International break. "Mafunzo occupy the second place in the Zanzibar Premier League and have a good reputation of representing the Isles in international competitions and we believe they will give us a good challenge before we face Azam," he said. Additionally, Bumbuli disclosed that picking Mafunzo was recommended by the team's technical panel, basing on their competitiveness hence calling the team’s fans to descend at the venue in big numbers to enjoy the game. "We have never played against Mafunzo as such; we expect to have a great match because it will be the first time for the two sides to meet. We also approached KMKM for a friendly duel but they have other programs," he said. He then reiterated that their target this season is to clinch the premier league title saying every match they play is driving them closer to the championship that is why they thrive to stamp success in most encounters they engage in. Ahead of their next league match against Azam, Bumbuli said they are well prepared to pocket vital three points at the end of the match so as to intensify the race for the league’s throne. "We have already defeated KMC and up next, we want to do the same to Azam as well as Simba and Namungo by making sure that we collect a maximum three points from these matches,” cautioned. "We have a good record against Azam at their Azam Complex and wherever they will take us, we are ready to face them and bag in essential three points from them. "As a club, our mission of claiming the league title remains unchanged and the confidence to achieve that is growing game after game since we are trying our level best to win matches," Bumbuli said. From 18 matches played, Yanga lead the table with 48 points as they intensify their splint towards winning the season's championship with a number of matches to come. They are the only side yet to taste defeat while their traditional rivals and defending champions Simba who occupy the second position with 37 points, have lost two games. Azam remain glued to third slot on the table with 28 points from 18 outings while Namungo and Mbeya City complete the top- five packages with 25 points apiece.