THE Democratic Republic of Congo is few hours away from becoming the seventh member in the East African Community (EAC) as the 19th Extra Ordinary Summit of the EAC Heads of State meets today to admit Africa’s second largest country with a population of about 90 million people. The six leaders are set to virtually convene for the crucial meeting, where they’ll consider the report of the Council Of Ministers on the negotiations between the EAC and the DRC. The Summit is preceded by the 48th Extra-Ordinary Meeting of the EAC Council of Ministers, which began here last Friday to consider the provisional agenda and programme of the 19th ExtraOrdinary Summit. According to the EAC Media Coordinator Florian Mutabazi, preparations of the high profile meeting were in top gear, with all the current six partner states confirming their participation. “We’ve not had any hitches so, and should everything go to plan, we are going to have a new baby by the name of DRC,” disclosed Mr Mutabazi. The country has so far completed all the major steps to joining the regional bloc. On Friday, the Council went through the checklist to ensure all grounds had been covered and agreed upon by all parties. The discretion of admitting DRC into the bloc, however, lies in the hands of EAC Heads of State Summit, should they be convinced to let the country join the regional intergovernmental organisation of six Partner States. The Summit of EAC Heads of State at its 21st Ordinary Meeting held in February last year, considered the application by DRC to join the Community and directed the Council to expeditiously undertake a verification mission in accordance with the EAC procedure for admission of new members into the EAC and report to the 22nd Summit DRC will be the second country to join the bloc after South Sudan did the same in April 2016. The 1999 EAC Treaty gives conditions for admission including adherence to good governance, democracy, rule of law, observance of human rights and social justice, potential members’ contribution to strengthening integration; geographical proximity to and inter-dependence between it and the partners; establishment and maintenance of a market-driven economy; and social and economic policies being compatible with those of the Community. Article 3 of the treaty of the establishment of the EAC states that Partner States may, upon such terms and in such manner as they may determine, together negotiate with any foreign country the granting of membership to, or association of that country with, the Community or its participation in any of the activities of the Community. Subject to such provision, the matters to be taken into account by the Partner States in considering the application by a foreign country to become a member of, be associated with, or participate in any of the activities of the Community, shall among other things include the foreign country’s acceptance of the Community as set out in the Treaty, adherence to universally acceptable principles of good governance, democracy, the rule of law, observance of human rights and social justice; potential contribution to the strengthening of integration within the East African region; geographical proximity to and inter-dependence between it and the Partner States as well as the establishment and maintenance of a market driven economy. The DRC is already a member of the Southern African Development Community and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa. But it won’t be the only East African Community country with overlapping membership of regional blocs. Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi are members of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa while Tanzania is a member of Southern African Development Community.