ONE year ago President Samia Suluhu Hassan was sworn into office, taking the oath at a time when the nation was reeling from the tragic death of her predecessor, Dr John Magufuli. As the first female president, she said on that her gender was not an issue because she was raised in the appropriate society and has enough experience in the administration and in her political party- Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) to lead the country. Her administration has disproved everyone who has been harbouring feelings that women are weaker beings who cannot be trusted to the country’s higher leadership posts. For the first time since Tanzania commenced celebrating International Women’s Day (IWD), this year it was marked with two of its three pillars of the state led by women. Dr Dorothy Gwajima, the Minister for Community Development, Gender, Women, and Special Groups, referred to President Samia as a ‘Super Woman’ for her remarkable work performance from her days as a Member of Parliament to the country's highest office. “President Samia continues to go further in maintaining political and economic stability, even though she took over the country in sadness, grief, and uncertainty, as well as some people doubting her abilities,” she said. Considering this, President Samia ends her first year with several accomplishments across the board, with the country celebrating significant progress toward gender parity, with President Samia standing tall as the apex of the success story. Despite the fact that gender balance remains a barrier to women's advancement to leadership posts in most countries throughout the world, President Samia's administration has seen more women climb the ladder, including in vital portfolios, than at any time since the country's independence. The current composition of the leadership which she nominated includes two categories of leadership which nearly attained the threshold of 50/50, that is Regional Administrative Secretaries of whom 46 per cent are women; and Judges, of whom 43 per cent are women. In terms of parliament, women are about 36 per cent and 21 per cent of them are at the ministerial level or deputy ministers. According to Ms Angela Kairuki, Chairperson of the Generation Equality Forum, President Samia has supported gender equality and women's welfare since taking office. Ms Kairuki says that more women have become economically empowered, noting the government's recent grant of a 200mil/- loan to a women's group in Dar es Salaam's Buguruni neighbourhood, which has now started a brick manufacturing business. “This is only one example of President Samia's commitment to improving women's living standards,” she stated. A Gender, Child Protection, and Public Health Specialist, Dr Katanta Simwanza, said the president is living up to the CCM 2020/2025 election manifesto’s first pillar, which speaks  of human dignity with a focus on equality and justice. “There are positions that have been held by men for many years, but now the nation and the world have seen that the women of Tanzania are capable of handling anything that men have been monopolising over centuries. “It will be difficult to achieve development without the involvement of all groups at the leadership level. Everyone has a role to play in reaching development, President Samia demonstrates to the rest of the world that the country is committed to advancing equality by ensuring that both men and women hold leadership roles,” Dr Simwanza noted, In order to promote women's economic empowerment, the government has established specific loans for women who want to start enterprises, aside from those provided by district and town councils in the country. President Samia has announced the start of provision of interest-free loans secured through NMB and CRDB banks across the country through special windows that have already been opened, as part of her vow to promote the welfare of women and support their efforts in poverty eradication. She also established the National Advisory Committee for Generation Equality Forum to advise her on matters of gender and women's economic empowerment as part of her dedication and goal to achieve gender equality. The creation of the new Ministry for Community Development, Gender, Women, and Special Groups is one example of her efforts towards achieving gender equality in a country where women account for half of the population. The 17th Tanzania Economic Update report on ‘Empowering Women: Expanding Access to Assets and Economic Opportunities’ released by World Bank revealed that Tanzania has made significant progress in improving women’s economic opportunities over the past 20 years. The United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator in Tanzania, Mr Zlatan Milisic, noted that gender equality is the fifth Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) and that they are working hard with Tanzania to accomplish it. "We work with men, women, communities and government to ensure that women have equal access to critical social services and to combat Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and harmful practices like Female Genital Mutilation," he stated. He added that they also work to economically empower women by offering training and political empowerment to enable them to become leaders in both the public and private sectors, allowing them to have higher productivity and revenue with their small businesses or agricultural activities. Swedish Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Anders Sjöberg said they welcome the progress made by Tanzanian authorities to further narrow the gender gap in society, for example in strengthening girls’ access to education as well as in revising the national legislation to eliminate discrimination against women and girls. “In Sweden and around the world, additional measures need to be put in place to ensure that girls and boys have equal opportunities. Our development cooperation policies are therefore guided by a mainstreaming approach where gender is transversal, and equality is either the primary or significant objective,” said Mr Sjöberg President Samia stated during this year's International Women's Day commemorations in Zanzibar that her government is working harder to guarantee that women have access to land ownership now that the Land Act No. 5 of 1999 has been revised. She also emphasized the government's goal to create more centres to teach people various life skills in order to enhance their products to the point where they can compete in the global market.