THE Police Force has been advised to raise awareness to the public on the protection and cyber security measures in order to control cybercrime. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology, Dr Jim Yonazi gave the advice on Monday, when opening cyber security training to regional detective officers, heads police force sections and heads of cyber security desks from Mainland and Zanzibar. He reminded the police force of their obligation to learn from those who have excelled in handling cybercrimes issues but also raise awareness to the public on the cyber security best practices. “You have to learn daily on complex criminal networks that operate across the world through coordinated intricate attacks. “You are not an island, police must therefore, keep pace with new technologies and understand the possibilities that create for criminals and how they can be used as tools for fighting cybercrime,” insisted Dr Yonazi. “It is your mission to provide safety and security for people and their properties through preservation of peace, maintenance of law and order, as well as administration and delivery of justice,” he said. Dr Yonazi said the world technological pattern is changing and the cybercrime is progressing at an incredibly fast pace, with new trends constantly emerging. “Cybercriminals are becoming more agile, exploiting new technologies with lightning speed, tailoring their attacks using new methods, something which tells us that we need to keep improving and learning new techniques every now and then,” he said. He added that while dispensing their duties especially in cybercrimes matters, police should educate and inform the public prior to enforcing punishment since others are found in the trap due to ignorance. Dr Yonazi said the training attended by almost 100-officers will come up with a picture of the current situation as far as cybercrimes and security are all about in the country and plan the best way ahead. He pledged for more capacity building trainings. Speaking during the event, the Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI) Camilius Wambura commended the ministry for organising the training, as it will widen the knowledge and understanding of the officers in dealing with cybercrimes and security. “Changing technology makes it ideal for such training from time to time, so that they can cope with the changing patterns in dealing with cybercrimes,” said DCI Wambura