SIMBA cut the gap with NBC Premier League leaders Young Africans to eight-point following their 2-0 victory over Dodoma Jiji at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam late on Monday. Simba have now bagged 37 points after playing 17 matches. Clatous Chama and substitute Meddie Kagere second half goals kept the Msimbazi Reds side on the hunt for the fifth straight league title. It was a highly competitive game as Dodoma Jiji resisted and kept Simba at bay in most part of the first half, which ended with both teams failing to register a shot on target. Simba had to wait until 57th minute to break the deadlock through a well taken spot kick by Chama. The penalty was awarded to Simba after defender George Wawa handled the ball in the box in an attempt to clear the danger. Simba were home and dry in the 75th minute when Kagere headed home a well weighted pass from impressive Peter Banda. The 11-point gap has been a common tag in their recently staged matches. Three days ago, it was the 8-point gap before Yanga defeated Geita Gold by a solitary goal at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Simba brushed it away by winning their yesterday’s match. The first half was fierce, with both teams showing an excellent performance in the mid-terrain. Simba made the first attempt in the 10th minute, Pape Ousmane Sakho fired a long shot outside the penalty box, but his attempt went wide. Dodoma Jiji attempted to score in the 22nd minute through Seif Karihe, who fired a powerful shot, but it sailed wide. In the 25th minute of the game, Simba’s Head Coach Pablo Franco substituted John Bocco after picking up an injury, and Kagere replaced him. After the break, Simba making an early attempt in the 51st minute through Kagere’s header to complete Peter Banda cross. Dodoma Jiji came close to score in the 64th minute but Simba’s goal keeper Beno Kakolanya stood firmly to stop the danger. Next up for Simba is a game against Morocco side RS Berkane in CAF Confederation Cup. The math will be staged at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on Sunday. In another league mathces played yesterday, Kinondoni Municipal Council lost 2-3 to Coastal Union at Azam Complex. Coastal United grabbed their goal through Abdul Sopu, William Kisingi and Rashid Chambo while KMC got goals from Emmanuel Mvuyekure and Kenny Mwambungu. The results put KMC in sixth place after collecting 22 points, while Coastal Union are positioned 10th with 21 points. The visitors Coastal Union were the first to score in the 20th minute after Abdul Sopu duly stepped up and powerfully converted the spot-kick to a goal. The penalty was due to the foul committed by Emmanuel Mvuyekure against Sopu. In the 40th minute, Mvuyekure equalized for KMC, finishing off a fine pass from Iddi Lipagwile. The first half ended with a 1-1 draw. However, as soon as the second half started, KMC replaced Awesu Ally Awesu with Kenny Mwambungu. The change was significant for KMC as Mwambungu doubled for his side with a long shot out of the penalty box in the 48th minute. Coastal Union did not give up as they attacked and scored two goals through William Kisingi in the 83rd minute and Rashid Chambo in the 90th minute. At Mabatini Stadium in Mlandizi, Ruvu Shooting hosted Biashara United. Unfortunately, Ruvu were forced to a barren draw in the tight encounter with Biashara United. The results put Ruvu Shooting in twelfth place after collecting 17 points, while Biashara United are positioned 13th with 16 points.