PREPARATIONS for a national dialogue on reviewing the curricular and education system that will meet the current needs has kicked off, said Minister for Education Science and Technology Prof Adolf Mkenda. Prof Mkenda disclosed this in Dar es Salaam, yesterday when President Samia Suluhu Hassan visited Benjamin Mkapa Secondary School and met with the students of the host school, Uhuru Mchanganyiko Secondary School and Uhuru Primary School. “The work has started and in the coming few days the ministry will convene several meetings to deliberate on all crucial matters in relation to the curriculum, said Prof Mkenda. He pointed out that the meeting will also involve going through the Education Policy of 2014, noting that despite the fact that its formulation was participatory it has not been implemented effectively. According to him, for some time now Tanzanians including religious leaders expressed interest for a dialogue in bringing about a major revolution in the provision of quality education which reflects the current demand. He revealed that during the President’s address in the Parliament on April 22, 2021, she directed the ministry on the same and has made emphasis on the matter calling upon the ministry to coordinate the dialogue to review the curricula, a move aimed to improve the quality of education. “We will go through the policy and its budgetary requirement and best ways of executing the policy in collaboration with key stakeholders We hope to invite you during the stakeholders meeting for the deliberations to be concluded in a short time in bringing major revolution in the sector” noted the Minister adding that the task will also include going through the Education Act of 1978. He observed that the issue of enough teachers, lecturers and trainers is also important along with infrastructure and working tools. Recently, religious leaders suggested the need for national dialogue on the education system that will meet the current needs. They aired their opinion during their meeting with President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the Dar es Salaam State House last week. The clerics noted that the education system should be reviewed for the sake of producing graduates who will be able to venture on self-employment without waiting for employment from the formal sector.