YOUNG Africans have an opportunity to regain their 11-point lead at the top of the NBC Premier League if they defeat KMC at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. In their past four head to head matches, hosts Yanga have managed two wins while KMC stamped one win and the other encounter climaxed in a 1-1 draw, hence the 90 minutes of the play will tell it all at the end. Coincidentally, the Jangwani street giants will be looking to maintain their unbeaten run to 18 games while at the same time, KMC are aiming to become the first team to upset the league’s leaders. However, after today’s meeting, the league will be temporarily suspended to pave the way for the international FIFA calendar as the country’s envoys Taifa Stars have been lined up to play two friendly matches against Somalia and Central African Republic. Both matches will be played at Benjamin Mkapa venue through a mini-tournament system of which the overall winner will walk out with a trophy after the final game between Tanzania and Somalia on March 29th. In their first round duel at Majimaji Stadium in Songea, Yanga defeated KMC 2-0 with goals from Fiston Mayele and Feisal Salum. It will be a chance for Mayele to take charge of the top goal scorer’s list if he succeed to score and overtake Namungo’s Reliants Lusajo as the duo have tied on 10-goal mark. Speaking yesterday ahead of the match, Yanga’s Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze said they are aware that the match will be difficult but maintained that they have drilled well ready for the 3-point haul. “KMC have been transformed a lot, especially since the arrival of their new coach and have been recording good results. But, that does not scare us because we are well prepared for the game,” he said. On her part, KMC Information Officer Christina Mwagala said they have got password to unlock Yanga’s unbeaten run saying they have necessary resources to achieve that. “Yanga is a beatable team despite the fact that until now they have not lost a single game in the league, we have the password to break that record. We respect them as one of the oldest teams in the country but we do not fear them,” she said. However, in their past league match, KMC lost 3-2 to Coastal Union at Uhuru Stadium as such; they will be searching for solace in today’s game by making sure that they do whatever necessary to grab important three points. On the other hand, Yanga registered a slim 1-0 win over Geita Gold at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza to maintain their perfect performance with Mayele scoring the winner.