TANZANIA’S pursuit of new business and investment partners received a massive boost at Dubai Expo 2020 with the signing of 36 memorandums of understanding (MoUs) valued at 7.49 billion US dollars (about 17.4tri/-). The deals were concluded between Tanzania’s public and private institutions and their United Arab Emirates (UAE) counterparts during a business and investment forum held alongside the Dubai Expo 2020 last month. Of the 36 MoUs, 12 were signed by government public institutions, 23 were between private businesses from the two sides and one by the Revolutionary government of Zanzibar. The signing ceremony was officiated by President Samia Suluhu Hassan and attended by over 400 members of business communities from Tanzania and UAE. According to the Minister for Investment, Industry and Trade minister, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, the signing of the MoUs testified the two countries’ commitment to continue strengthening and promoting economic ties. “This forum provides opportunities for both countries to consolidate and strengthen economic relations through investment and trade which align with Tanzania government’s efforts to drive economic growth and sustainable development through industrialization,” said Dr Kijaji. She says Tanzania well exploited her participation at the Dubai Expo 2020 by promoting its potentials in the sector of tourism, agriculture, oil and gas, minerals, energy, livestock and fisheries, construction, transportation as well as showcasing the Kiswahili language. Among key sectors which will benefit from investment agreements are energy, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure, transportation, textiles, ICT, and construction. Twelve MoUs were signed between the Tanzanian government and investors, while 23 MoUs were signed between Tanzanian companies and various investors seeking joint ventures or collaboration in various sectors of the economy. One MoU was signed between Zanzibar’s Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development and potential investors in the tourism industry, specifically in the area of conference tourism. Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), the publisher of this newspaper and Muhammad Jahangir Freight Services LLC (MJFSL), signed an agreement for cooperation and partnership in several key areas including sourcing of raw materials (printing consumables) and spare parts on favaourable terms. MJFSL will provide freight services for printing consumables and spare parts, provision of freight services for finished goods and stand as TSN agent in business deals when needs arise. Also, the partnership includes terms and conditions favourable for mutual benefit, exchange contacts on the best suppliers of raw materials and spare parts whenever required as well as sharing information on available and emerging business opportunities in either country. The Ministry of Energy signed an agreement between the DP World and the Tanzania Port Authority (TPA) which includes three projects for petroleum storage, improvement of the port services, information and communication technologies, infrastructure and other related tasks that will be agreed upon. Likewise, the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) inked an agreement which entails the petroleum bulk procurement process with the aim of reducing the prices of fuel and bringing relief to problems relating to securing fuel. Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and Abu Dhabi Future Energy reached an agreement on green energy with a company identified as MAZDA. On the other hand, TTCL Corporation and HUAWEI signed an agreement in the area of ICT specifically increasing the telecom company’s capacity among other areas of cooperation. Other MOUs involved the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology to enable the ministry and its agencies to increase its capacity including putting up a mobile telephone factory and other areas under discussion. The State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) and AMCAE entered two partnership agreements on drilling and consultancies, which comes as a result of their participation at the Expo Dubai 2020. The Ministry of Agriculture signed four agreements to strengthen agri-business and increase technology and other farm input among key projects, the smallest project valued at 500 million US dollars (about 1.14bn/-). The MoUs ushered in a new era of a robust and multifaceted partnership between the two countries, opening doors for a more prosperous future, particularly for Tanzania which strives to build a strong industrial-based economy. Speaking in separate interviews with the ‘Daily News’, economists urged responsible government institutions to fasttrack execution of the investment projects. “President Samia is doing a very good job in attracting investments. It is now up to responsible institutions to facilitate the projects,” Dr Bohela Lunogelo, an economist and former Executive Director of the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF), remarked. Dr Lunogelo commented further that it was high time the government established a onestop centre to facilitate and fasttrack approvals of investments and issuance of preliminary certificates for environment and social impact assessment. The economist urged multiple institutions involved in execution of the envisaged investment projects to avoid red-tape which could frustrate potential investors. Commenting on the MoUs, a renowned economist-cumbanker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, said President Samia’s excursion to Dubai Expo 2020, once again, has shown a sincere desire to continue to open-up to Tanzania, especially in terms of investments. “Her personal participation is a strong sign that she intends to bring Tanzania back to the world map, which in one way or another had previously placed Tanzania in a tough time, due to among other things, caused by the global economic downturn and the presence of covid-19 which left many wounds in the economies of various countries. “In the process of reaching an investment deal, it should be observed that much as the government values good intentions shown at the Dubai Expo, signing of 36 MoUs amongst business partners, government and other business entities is in my view a preliminary step,” he observed. Dr Shayo applauded President Samia’s stark reminder that the MoUs signing should not be just a ceremony inundated with colourful photographs and showing interest but rather turning the agreements into execution. “The task that I see remains is to take these investors and place them within sectors segments that will not only bring productivity, efficiency but returns to the nation and to investors in a win-win situation,” he stated. In a separate interview, a veteran economist, Prof Haji Semboja, urged state organs to put in place a conducive environment for the potential investors. “Implementation of the investment projects will play a crucial role in stimulating the economy. We are on the right path and we should make best use of it,” he stated. On the other hand, Prof Semboja called for review of legislations and policies which hinder smooth operations of investors.