MANYARA Region has received 10bn/- through the Productive Social Safety Nets (PSSN) arrangement. Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) Regional Coordinator, Rashid Shedafa, said at least 561 villages and 46, 271 households were set to benefit from the fund. According to Shedafa, the government’s strategy of reducing poverty in the country had conducted strategy to reduce poverty cash transfer to poor households during TASAF’s three phase, an exercise which lasted between February 2020 and February 2022. The TASAF official was however quick to point out the declining number beneficiaries, due to a number of factors. “We’ve been experiencing a drop in number of beneficiaries as result of relocations and deaths,” he revealed. For TASAF to achieve its objective in Manyara, Mr Shedafa disclosed plans of disbursing funds to poor homesteads, especially those with school-going children, adding that the fund was also mulling over plans addressing the issue of unemployment in the region. “This initiative strictly targets poverty alleviation among mostly rural residents,” said Mr Shedafa. On his part, TASAF national committee Charles Mwamaja emphasized the need of conducting a countrywide sensitization mission on the fund’s ultimate goal. Among other things, TASAF’s programme objective seeks to increase income and consumption, improve the ability to cope with shocks, and enhance and protect the human capital of children among extremely poor populations. Currently, the fund implements TASAF III, phase two which has four components, namely the Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN), which is made up of a basic grant a conditional cash transfer and a public works subcomponent. It also features a component of enhancing livelihoods and increasing incomes, which involves community savings and investments and livelihood enhancing grants. It also targets infrastructure development and capacity building to ensure adequate programme implementation by communities, local government authorities, and regional- and national-level players.