MINISTER for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolf Mkenda has encouraged schools in the country to use a variety of approved reference books     from the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) instead of sticking to one education document. He said the Education and Training Policy of 2014 states that the government, through TIE, will prepare, publish and distribute text books - one book for every class and lesson for early education levels, primary and secondary schools. However, he insisted that schools are free to use other supplementary books. Prof Mkenda made the statement while winding up a one-day meeting with publishers, printers, authors and book sellers. The meeting was aimed at discussing challenges in the book industry and how to solve them. It was during the discussions that several participants claimed that some education officers and inspectors are on record, threatening school management, especially private schools that they risk revocation of licenses if they are found using any other books apart from those from the government. Prof Mkenda said if such officers or people exist, they should stop the disgraceful habits, saying they derail the government efforts to improve education and inculcate readership culture among Tanzanians. “It is total craziness to stop a teacher or student from using other books in addition to the specified textbooks and reference materials as it is useful to get knowledge from other sources but within the government guidelines" said the minister, adding that government books are compulsory but others are allowed too. During the meeting, some of the publishers and book sellers blamed TIE for lack of cooperation, forcing some of them to close businesses. They said the Institute had a lot of duties that compromised the quality of books they publish. The worst scenario, they pointed out, is the shortage of Standard Four and Seven reference books in the country, adding that despite being the sole publisher of books, it has failed to supply them. Response to the shortage TIE Director General, Anneth Komba, admitted the shortage, saying Covid-19 caused by delay after affecting the foreign countries where the books are published. The minister however, called on TIE to have in place a mechanism to ensure books are available throughout the year. He said the management should consider working with local printers in an effort to reduce cost and create jobs. He expressed the government commitment in cooperating with the stakeholders, saying they are key partners in education development. According to the minister, in the past the stakeholders were left behind but he has seen the need to work closely with them. Prof Mkenda added that the government will involve them in all matters pertaining to education, especially at this time when it is in the process of reviewing the curriculum. On his part Commissioner of Education, Dr Lyabwene Mtahabwa noted that the government would work on challenges raised at the meeting in order to develop the book industry in the country. He said, "I'm glad that we had a constructive discussion aimed at improving the sector and this is just the beginning of such engagements". Ends  Dodoma hospital wins top surgical award DODOMA Regional Referral Hospital has won Surgical Implant Generation Network (SIGN) nail’s award after emerging a leading institution in human body's fractures treatment for the year 2021. The hospital’s Doctor in Charge Dr Enerst Ibenzi, said the award was been presented by SIGN Fracture Care International, a United States non-government organization that partners with hospitals and surgeons in low- and middle-income countries to provide orthopedic training, instrument sets, and supply of implants. “The aim of this award is to recognise the contribution of the Dodoma Regional Referral Hospital in the modern treatment of patients with fractures of various parts of the body,” explained Dr Ibenzi during a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ recently. He added that in 2021 the hospital was ranked first surpassing famous hospitals in the programme across the globe.  The hospital outshined the famous orthopedic department of Muhimbili Hospital, MOI. Dr Ibenzi said that during that period, Dodoma hospital through the programme treated well 672 patient and recovered completely. He said that the SIGN programme plays a big role in creating equality of fracture care throughout the world. Dr Ibenzi detailed that Dodoma Referral Hospital started using intramedullary nails in 2016 and so far, more than 3,000 patients have benefited from the service since the hospital started using the metals. The programme is in 54 countries, and 388 hospitals are using SIGN and it has recorded 372,640 patients healed since its inception in 1999. Through the SIGN programme, the hospitals were enabled to develop an innovative implant system for treating patients in low-resource hospitals. The system can be used without expensive x-ray imaging or electricity. In Africa, the project is implemented in some hospitals in Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Gabonese Republic, Ghana, Guinea, and Kenya Others are Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Tanzania, Gambia, Togo, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Uganda.