TANZANIA has recorded tremendous achievements in water sector during the one year of President Samia Suluhu Hassan as water accessibility in rural and urban areas continues to increase through various projects aimed at ending water woes in the country. Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso told  journalists  in Arusha  on Saturday that  through  the funding  from the government  his ministry has improved water  supply  in  rural area  from 70.1  per  cent to 72 .3 percent  and  84 per cent  to 86 per cent in urban areas. He said that since she took over the office, President Samia has showed commitment to end water woes in the country by ensuring that the funds allocated for the development projects are released. "The ministry was allocated 646bn/- for development budget in 2021/2022 financial year  ... we have so far received 480bn/- which is equivalent to 74 percent ... this is a great achievement compared to the previous 50 per cent," he said. Minister Aweso  said during her leadership President Samia has  laid the foundation stones  for various  water projects among others Mugango-Kiabakari-Butiama Water Supply Project  worth 70bn/-  and water treatment plant in Bunda worth 10.6bn/- He further noted that President Samia has also dished out 139bn/- for implementing various water projects out of 1.3tr/- provided by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as relief package to address the effects of Covid- 19 in various sectors. The money will be used to implement one water project in each constituency in the country, binging a total of 218 water projects. The funds will also be used to   purchase 25 drilling and construction machines which will be allocated to every region   as part of efforts to increase water availability. All water projects are targeting to achieve the government’s set target of 95 and 85 per cent of people with access to safe and clean water in urban and rural areas by 2025, respectively. The Minister further   noted that  during  one  year  period of  President Samia, a total of 126  stalled projects out of  177  have been revived,  noting that  the remaining projects will also  be  revived by  June  this year. He said that the ministry is also going to implement 1,176 water projects in rural areas and 114 in urban areas. "To date, a total of 463 water projects have already been completed," he said. He said the directives by President Samia of making sure the Chekereni project worth 520 bn/- is accomplished before December this year has been realised as the water started flowing this month.