We are in Shinyanga Region andhave in our hands, the Custodian of March 5, on whose page 7 is a large colourful photograph of men and women apparently demonstrating about something. We get a clue from the caption accompanying the photograph: “Ushetu District Council Staff and residents of Kalama village in Kahama District, Shinyanga Region, march in Uyogo Ward yesterday, while ‘brandishing’ a placard with a message underlining the importance of justice and equality in the struggle for sustainable development. It was all part of the countdown to the climax of International Women’s Day (March 8)”. Is “brandishing”, an appropriate word in these circumstances? Our Macmillan English Dictionary for Advanced Learners defines “brandish” as “to wave a weapon or other object around in your hand so that other people can see it”. The Dictionary gives an example: “A crowd of protesters, some brandishing sticks and machetes, had gathered”. So,“brandish”is associated with hand-held weapons or other threatening items, in a situation which may result into confrontation. The photograph we are looking at, and referring to herein, shows a peaceful group of demonstrators, who are not brandishing anything. How about keeping it simple and using the verb “carrying”, that is, “the staff were carrying a placard … with a message ……”. Many times, simple is quite appropriate. Still in Shinyanga, and on page 7 of the Custodian, is a story titled: “Truancy, pregnancy removes 27 pupils ‘in primary school’, 57 ‘in secondary school’”. Before reading the details of the story, I would modify the title to read as follows: “Truancy, pregnancy removes 27 pupils ‘FROM primary schools’, 57 ‘FROM secondary schools’”. According to the writer, Shinyanga Region has been facing problems in the education sector: “The region has been experiencing challenges involving students who fail to finish their studies due to truancy and pregnancies, with data on students who ‘passed’ their final primary education last year showing that 38,694 students ‘passed’”. There are two “passed”, used in this sentence, but it is clear, that one of these should be a different word. I would replace the first “passed” with “sat”, add a new word, and have the sentence read as follows: “The region has been experiencing challenges involving students who fail to finish their studies due to truancy and pregnancies, with data on students who ‘sat’ their final primary education ‘examinations’ last year, showing that 38,694 students ‘passed’”. The problem of education in Shinyanga also involves shortage of manpower, as the story titled: “Shinyanga has shortage of more than 6,000 teachers”, implies. The Regional Commissioner is quoted as saying: “We need more teachers to facilitate teaching of our students, she said, calling upon ‘available teachers’ to work hard to cover the ‘available gap’ as the government works to address the shortage”. “Available gap?” Nope! The adjective “available” is used to mean that something is there for taking. You do not take a gap. Note as well that in the sentence we are referring to, the word ‘available’ is used twice: “available teachers”, and “available gap”. So, I would replace “available gap” with “existing gap”, or “current gap”. I would also bolster up the sentence by adding the definite article “the”. Here is the re-worded version: “We need more teachers to facilitate ‘the’ teaching of our students, she said, calling upon available teachers to work hard to cover the ‘current gap’, as the government works to address the shortage”. The RC lamented the lack of school feeding programmes. According to the writer: “She said most of the students stay far from ‘the schools’, thus providing food at ‘school’ would encourage them to come to ‘school’”. Is there a way of avoiding using the word “school” three times, next to each other, in a sentence and maintain the same meaning, more or less? Here is an attempt: “She said most of the students stay far, thus providing food at ‘school’ would encourage attendance”. Enjoy your weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com