Environmentalists have raised alarm on the increasing usage of non-recyclable plastic bottles which poses hazardous challenges to the environment. They urged the government to act tough to protect the environment from further degradation after a four year audit that shows 75 per cent of the non-recyclable bottles are produced by local manufacturers. NipeFagio’sExecutive Director, Ana Le Rocha, said that an audit conducted by her organisation for four years indicates that local manufacturers and producers have contributed 75 percent of non-recyclable plastic waste as the rest 25 were contributed by importers. “We desperately need serious and drastic measures to be adopted and followed through to avoid collapsing under the single-use plastic waste that is being produced—both figuratively and literally,” Ms Le Rocha said in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Ms Le Rocha, whose organisation deals with waste and pollution management,reiterated that2021 was an even more pivotal year to holdplastic producing corporations accountablefor their contribution to climate change. The world’s leaders came together at the UnitedNations Climate Change Conference (COP26)to negotiate how to limit global heating to1.5°C. And now, in this year, there is a resolution to“End Plastic Pollution: Towards anInternational Legally Binding Instrument”approved at UNEA 5.2 and being considered the most significant environmental deal since the Paris agreement. This resolution targets the whole plastic lifecycle, from production to disposal, andrecognises the importance of waste pickers and informal workers for waste recovery. She said that the unfair side of this plasticstory is that the youth of this country willinherit an environment that is suffocatingunder critical climatic conditions and plasticpollution, even though they have had theleast contribution to such a state. She however applauded the government’s efforts in curbing plastic andenvironmental pollution but also urged moreefforts to put an end to single use plastic crisisin the country. “We are aware and are appreciative of themeasures that the government has alreadytaken to restrict single-use plastic, especiallywith the banning of plastic grocery bags andthe banning of soft plastic wrappers covering plastic beverage bottles and plastic straws,” she said.