THE country’s financial sector has registered a significant drop in Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), Finance and Planning Minister, Mwigulu Nchemba has said. Outlining the milestones registered during President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s one year in office, Dr Nchemba revealed that NLPs had decreased to 8.2 per cent from the initial 9.3 per cent. He attributed such a feat to the defaulters’ ability to service their loans. “Those who weren’t able to repay their outstanding loans are now able to do so,” the minister explained here yesterday. The government, through the central bank had in the recent past been taking measures to stabilise the banking sector, including merging small banks with inadequate capital. In March last year, NPLs in Tanzania stood at 9.36 per cent of the total loans, which was nearly twice the recommended threshold of 5 per cent. According to Dr Nchemba, the reduction of NPLs follows President Samia’s directive on effecting payments on those owed by the government. “The government was able to settle its debt on contractors and engineers who in turn repaid their loans,” he clarified. The Minister further disclosed that the government was currently verifying a list of individuals who were owed by the government with a view of settling such dues. NPL refers to a loan in which the borrower is in default and hasn't made any scheduled payments of principal or interest for some time. Dr Nchemba was also quick to highlight liquidity, which is the ease with which an asset, or security, can be converted into ready cash without affecting its market price. He pointed out that market liquidity enjoyed a 9.3 per cent by December 2021, compared to 4.8 per cent registered in the period ending December 2020. “This can be attributed to increase in loans issued to the private sector and settling of outstanding dues,” he explained. According to the Finance Minister, loans issued to the private sector ballooned to 10 per cent by December 2021, compared to 3.1 per cent in 2020. The country also registered an increase in foreign exchange reserves, thanks to major economic transformations witnessed in one year and the opening up of the country to the rest of the world, Covid-19 notwithstanding. Dr Nchemba said the foreign reserves grew to 6.4billion US dollars in December 2021 from the initial 6.0 billion US dollars, which was registered in December 2020. Such a reserve is said to be able to sustain the country’s quest of importing goods and services in not less than six months, a feat which surpasses other economic bloc’s objectives, such as the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the East African Community (EAC).