YOUNG Africans Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi said his side is yet to reach high level of playing he envisages despite leading the league with unbeaten run. The Jangwani Street- based outfits hammered Kagera Sugar 3-0 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend to stretch their lead at the top of the table to 11-points. Lethal striker Fiston Mayele scored a brace while the veteran playmaker, Saido Ntibazonkiza contributed one goal to deflate Kagera Sugar, who despite the loss, played brilliantly in all 90 minutes. As it stands, Yanga have now collected 42 points from 16-game outings and have opened the second round of the league with a sound victory. Their next opponents are Geita Gold whom they meet on March 6th. However, at a post- match briefing, when he was queried to comment if his team has reached the levels he forecasted in one of his past interviews, the Tunisian trainer said his team is yet to reach the playing point he admires. "I am sorry... forgive me, but the truth is that we have not yet reached the levels we want," he said while hailing their opponents (Kagera Sugar) for the quality football they displayed on the day. "What I can say is that Kagera Sugar have changed a lot in comparison with the first match we played at their home. Today (Sunday), they displayed nice football and let me congratulate coach Francis Baraza for the good job he is doing at the club," he said. He also seized the platform to appreciate the current performance from Ntibazonkiza saying he has now regained his form in contrast with the opening matches of the campaign where he used to struggle a bit. Striker Mayele, who has so far scored nine goals, said he will continue to work hard in order to get the golden boot award at the end of the season. He also insisted that the club's target is to win the title hence as players, they will carry on to fight to achieve the set up objectives while calling on Yanga fans  to tirelessly support their team. On his part, Kagera Sugar trainer Baraza said a few mistakes his charges committed during the match were positively used by Yanga to score goals and generate a comfortable win. "Especially when we conceded the first goal, concentration among my players dropped even though we were able to display a perfect show. "I tried to push them back into the game but most of them seemed to have lost hope and I do not know why. But as a coach, I have noted a number of things which we will address before our next game," he said. Following the slump, Kagera Sugar are eighth on the ladder with 20 points in the bag and have failed to disappoint Yanga in two clashes they have met this season.