In honour of International Women's Day held last week, the NCBA Bank Tanzania Limited has come out to encourage women in Tanzania to strive for greatness as one way to break the gender bias in our workplaces and communities.  Margaret Karume, Managing Director and CEO of NCBA Bank, made this point in communication to staff and customers whilst commemorating International Women's Day at their head offices in Dar es Salaam.  In her statements, Ms Karume recollected her journey of rising through the ranks from a clerk to most senior leadership positions, overcoming the scourges of gender stereotyping and discrimination. She said, "I stood out from the competition within the organizations I worked in by applying myself as a team player, learning from others, listening to advise from my mentors and learning from my predecessors," Moreover, Margaret spoke out about her observations and experiences with unconscious gender bias as she grew through the ranks, saying, "As I was growing in my career I observed that age is a factor that hinders some women because some leaders believe mature people handle certain roles and responsibilities better than young people." Furthermore, beauty is also often regarded as a factor for opening doors for a woman or getting the right attention – in some instances the more beautiful a lady is, the more likely she is to win an opportunity, she stated. Margaret went on to mention other unconscious biases she and other female leaders often experience such as marital status, where people believe a married lady with a family can handle critical leadership roles better than an unmarried woman. She described how to promote gender equality in the world saying, "I think it shouldn’t be so much about doing things differently and doing more for women,” but that everyone should remember that no gender is superior to the other. It is critical to create an environment and provide training for both males and females to equally excel and to believe that results can be obtained from both. Zainab Mushi, the Head of Human Resources at NCBA Bank, also spoke out about overcoming unconscious biases women experience in the workplace throughout Africa. "The primary issue is how women are perceived,' she says. "If we can continue to redefine our beliefs and values, women will have an opportunity to achieve greatness." "We must be prepared and willing to provide transformative knowledge that enables women to overcome gender bias and pursue greatness. It is a task that everyone, including men, must undertake," Ms Mushi emphasized. Gloria Njiu, NCBA Bank's Head of Digital Business offered a broad perspective on gender equality and the role of Digital financial innovation in addressing it. In her words, "As a truly African bank, we have opened our doors to the country's women microentreprenuers." For example, MPAWA is one of our innovative financial products for women. "MPAWA was created to provide women microentrepreneurs with quick easy access to instant loans," Gloria said. It is also a useful service that allows them to save money using M-Pesa and hence driving financial inclusion. NCBA Bank Tanzania Limited is part of the NCBA Group PLC, which is one of the largest financial services groups in the region. A bank with the financial strength, expertise, and regional reach to support Tanzania and the regions’ economic growth aspirations. NCBA Bank offers the best in class relationship management and financial service solutions to her customers, providing a strong digital proposition and robust competitive corporate banking, Transactional banking and asset finance offerings. The bank has branches in Dar Es Salaam, Mwanza, Arusha, and Zanzibar Island”.