CONSTRUCTION of the Karema Port project on Lake Tanganyika has reached 85 per cent as Tanzania looks to expand her wings in the lucrative Congo DR market. According to the project consultant, Inter Consult Ltd, the port will be completed on May 22, this year and go operational as early as June, 2022. “The project started in October, 2019 and I am delighted to say that we have reached a very good stage, we’re very optimistic that this scheme will be completed as scheduled, which is May 22, 2022,” Inter Consult Ltd Assistant Resident Engineer Elisante Urassa told the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited journalists yesterday. The project is implemented by China’s Xiamen Ongoing Construction Group at a cost of 47.9bn/- financed by the government, through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA). A 22,500 square metre heavy duty pavement and tide breaker are almost complete, currently at 98 per cent each. The construction of a multipurpose 150m berth to accommodate up to two ships is also at 98 per cent. The dredging and deepening of the port entrance to 4.5meter is at final stages, while the construction of an office building, passenger lounge and a general cargo warehouse has reached 60 per cent. “We’re also finalising the installation of an ICT network and of our customers in DR Congo,” said Mr Gassaya, noting that the Karema will initially have the capacity to handle 1million tonnes of cargoes annually. The Karema Port will be linked with a standard gauge railway to be constructed from Mpanda District and road to make it a proper gateway for the DR Congo and Burundi to the Asian markets through the Dar es Salaam port. Mr Gassaya expressed optimism that, upon completion, the terminal would be a game changer for economy of Katavi Region and neighbouring Kigoma and Rukwa regions. “The port will massively lift the economy of this region and other neighbouring regions,” said Mr Gassaya. The Karema Port project is envisaged to attract domestic and foreign investments, open up job and trade opportunities in the areas. Residents in neighbouring villages are already seizing trade opportunities brought by the Karema Port project, where fishermen and farmers sell their produce to the construction workers.