PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday said that the next fiscal budget will focus on irrigation schemes to tap wide markets at local and international levels for cereal and horticultural products. Equally, the Head of State also has tasked banks and financial institutions in the country to take advantage of the government’s idle plots abroad by building commercial complexes. The president said  that  the  2022/23  will focus  more  on agriculture  especially  the irrigation schemes  for  rice and  horticulture  to  walk away from  rain-fed agriculture  while boosting productivity. “Yesterday [Friday] during the cabinet budget preparation meeting we discussed at length and agreed that the next budget priority will be on agriculture—specifically irrigation schemes. “This is an area to focus on with quick revenue returns and can bring in a lot of [forex] revenue,” Ms Samia said during the official opening of CRDB Bank Headquarter along Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road at Palm Beach Area in Dar es Salaam. The 163bn/- state-of-the-art building HQ has 11-storeyand can house over 1,000 staff and is fully digitalized, with an entire floor with a banking museum. The building has one of the largest auditorium. The President said currently Belgium is importing high-quality rice and United Arab Emirates (UAE) imports some 60 tonnes of horticultural products from Tanzania. Agriculture employs over 70 per cent of the country's population. “If irrigation is capitalised accordingly, we will warrant farming rice twice a year in some areas …this will increase revenue to the farmers,” said President Samia , who  had just completed her tour in Europe and the Middle East recently. She also said that local banks should think about expanding business outside the country to broaden their revenue. “If other banks have invested in our country why not our banks also do the same…go and invest and bring back the profits to our country,” President Samia advised, adding that she was very happy when she toured Burundi and be informed that CRDB was one of the largest banks in the country while the bank is heading to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) as well. The CRDB Managing Director, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela, said the bank is ready to support the government’s strategic projects as it did previously on Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project and the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). “Talks are at an advanced stage with the Ministry of Agriculture, which will enable the bank to issue agricultural bond in collaboration with the ministry to facilitate loan issuance to farmers at affordable interest rate,” Mr Nsekela said. The lender has already issued an agri-loan at 9.0 per cent interest rate that is the lowest in the market and the first-ever by a commercial bank. The MD also said that the bank will issue green bonds specific for business activities centred on protecting the environment while firms make profits. The bond also will touch the agri-sector. Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Governor Florens Luoga said the achievement of the banking sector pushed other EAC and SADC governors to ask specifically BoT to entice domestic lenders to invest in their countries. “Some five neighboured countries have forwarded their invitation and welcomed our banks to cross borders and invest in their countries…this shows the stride of achievements our banks have made over time, especially in mitigating the impact of Covid-19 and digitalinnovations,” Prof Luoga said. Also, the President tasked banks to coordinate withthe Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to figure out ways of investing in the government’s plots, which are idle abroad. “At the Cabinet [on Friday], the Foreign Affairs Minister told us there are many plots we were given as the country but are yet to be developed…it is high time banks chip in and see a way of developing them profitably,” she said. The CRDB HQ at the Palm Beach area is a joint venturebetween the lender and National Housing Corporation (NHC). CRDB is one of the largest banks in the country in terms of balance sheet and leads in loan issuance. Up to last year it dished out5.1bn/- in various sectors. Last year the bank made a profit of 268bn/-. 