DESPITE the government's focus on social services, particularly health, stakeholders have been encouraged to help contribute   to improve the effectiveness of such services. Acting Chief Medical Officer of Ubungo District Boniface Katikiro made the call while receiving medical supplies from the Goba Road Runners Club (GRR). He noted that the government could not do everything in all sectors, thus the community, including diverse groups and clubs, should get involved. “It's wonderful to think about the health sector; the government is doing everything it can to improve services,” Katikiro said. “However, due to the size of the country, some things may not reach everywhere in time.” He also urged other social clubs to ensure that they reach out to the community in a variety of ways so that the club's creation benefits the entire community. GRR Board Member Koga Mihama commented on the contribution, saying that they supplied it after monitoring and determining that the clinic lacked the necessary equipment. “This isn't the first time we've supported Goba Clinic; this year's race theme was to save the lives of women and children, and we were honoured to be able to help in this area by supplying fetal dopplers,” he explained. "When we came to ask the mother and baby unit what we could do to help, they told us they had a problem with modern machines for measuring and listening to a baby's heartbeat in the womb," she explained, "they told us they had a problem with modern machines for measuring and listening to a baby's heartbeat in the womb." He said that after receiving the request, they came together and were able to purchase the digital machines known as fetal dopplers for $5 million. Rachel Ng'oga, the Clinic's Nurse in Charge, said the support will improve treatment for the pregnant mother because they have been utilizing obsolete tests to listen to the baby's pulse for a long time. “We used to put the old equipment in the mother's ear and abdomen, and sometimes you couldn't hear correctly,” she explained. “But with new digital instruments, even the mother can hear her baby's heartbeat,” she added.