TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) yesterday signed six strategic investors performance contract worth 1.1 billion US dollars (equivalent to 2.3tri/-) of which 50 per cent are for sugar projects. TIC Executive Director, Dr Maduhu Kazi said the companies which signed the performance contract were approved by the National Investment Steering Committee (NISC) to enjoy additional fiscal and non fiscal incentives as provided for in various laws. The country will also see generation of 28,710 direct and other 79,000 indirect employments during the execution of the projects. Dr Kazi said the certificates of incentives have been awarded to the strategic investors in three categories namely locally owned project with the minimum investment capital not less than Tanzanian shillings equivalent to 20 million US dollars. Others are wholly owned by a foreign investor or a joint venture whose minimum investment capital is not less than 50 million US dollars and special strategic investors with minimum investment capital of not less 300 million US dollars. “We are optimistic that they have the capability to significantly generate foreign exchange earnings, produce significant import substitution goods or supply of important facilities necessary for development in the social, economic or financial sectors” said Dr Kazi. The strategic investors who signed the contract are Kagera Sugar factory with capital injection of 410 million US dollars which will generate 10,000 direct and 50,000 indirect employments when it commences operations. The factory will have capacity of producing 300,000 tonnes of sugar annually thus decreasing sugar imports and curb the deficit. Also another contract involves expansion of Mtibwa Sugar factory at a cost of 150 million US dollars thus making a total investment worth 305 million US dollars which will create 12,500 employments. In its commitment to end sugar shortage the government also signed a performance contract with Bagamoyo Sugar Company which plantation and sugar production at the capital of 193.75-million US dollars. The project will produce 300,000 tonnes of sugar annually and create 1,500 direct and 10,000 indirect employments. The non sugar performance contracts signed entailed Itracom Fertiliser Limited factory in Dodoma worth 180 million US dollars which will provide 4,500 official employments and an additional of 6,000 indirect jobs. Another contract signed was between TIC and Taifa Gas and TIC and Knauf Company from German whereby the latter is planning to set up a gypsum board and gypsum powder factory worth 150-million US dollars. Almost 650 employments both direct and indirect will be created. Speaking after signing the contract, the Deputy Minister for Investment, Trade and Industry, Mr Exaud Kigahe pressed for smooth and conducive procedure for investors since the private sector is at the driving seat. He said the government would not entertain bureaucracy instead strive for better service delivery to investors and the private sector as well.