PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has hailed NMB for extending support to improve the country’s education sector targeting students with special needs. President Samia hailed the bank during her special tour at the Benjamin Mkapa Secondary School in Dar es Salaam, yesterday where the bank donated hearing and visually impaired equipment to four Dar es Salaam schools. NMB donated equipment to Dar es Salaam schools worth 58m/- aimed at improving the learning environment for students with special needs at Benjamin Mkapa, Uhuru Mchanganyiko and Jangwani secondary schools as well as Uhuru Girls primary school. During the event, President Samia received 60 special equipment to aid students with hearing impairment, 90 gadgets for visually impaired students as well as 20 laptops from the NMB Chief Executive Officer, Ruth Zaipuna. President Samia said the government has spent 5.9bn/- for improvement of elementary education, primary and secondary schools as well as colleges and higher learning institutions guaranteeing students with special needs get right to education. She extended appreciation to NMB Bank Plc for providing valuable support including sports gear, revealing that her daughter also pledged to provide 76 sets of sportswear for the three schools. “The NMB CEO has handed to me special equipment to aid students with hearing and visually impaired students. I appeal to the bank to provide more laptops to cater for the increased needs and address students’ challenges,” she said. Speaking earlier, the NMB CEO Ms Zaipuna told President Samia, NMB was a key stakeholder in the country’s education sector that was why they came there to support the government efforts to ensure Tanzanians get quality education. She said the NMB donation would help students with special needs in these schools and address various challenges they face while pursuing their studies. The bank donated sports equipment aimed to improve sports activities and the health of the students in the schools. Last year, NMB bank launched Nuru Yangu Scholarship and Mentorship Programme seeking to maximise the lender’s positive impact on society and further national philanthropic causes. Nuru Yangu high school and university scholarship grand augur well with efforts of the government for quality education whereas the apprenticeship opportunities are a boon to the skilled labour market and promotion of selfemployment. On his part, the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Amos Makalla, said NMB bank is the ‘government social investment arm’ due to the huge support to the education sector and its infrastructures geared at improving students learning environment.