THE High Court has ordered a Chinese national Zhang ZhixXin to show cause why he should not be imprisoned for failure to comply with orders of the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura), prohibiting him to operate Waste Oil Recycling Facility. Judge Amir Mruma issued such order after considering an application lodged by Ewura and having been convinced that the Chinese, the respondent, did not comply with the orders given by the authority. “I therefore order that the Respondent Zhang ZhixXin appear before this court on the date to be fixed hereinafter to show cause why he should not be (sent) to prison,” the judge declared in a ruling delivered in Dar es Salaam recently. The respondent is the owner and operator of the Waste Oil Recycling Facility located at Visaga Zegereni Industrial area in Kibaha district, Coast region. On March, 20, 2019 the applicant sent inspectors to the respondent’s recycling facility. After conducting some inspections they found that the operations were being conducted in violation of the law and in the manner that was detrimental to health, safety and environmental requirements. The respondent was then issued with compliance orders requiring his facility to immediately stop its operations. It was the Applicant’s contention that the Respondent did not comply. In his submissions in reply, the respondent contended that there was a compliance order as alleged by the applicant but he paid 5m/- to the applicant and negotiations were going on with the applicant to fulfill the requirements. However, in the ruling, the judge noted that by admitting that there are ongoing negotiations “to fulfill requirements” the respondents is confessing that he has not fully complied with the orders of the authority. In an affidavit to support the application Engineer Shaban Selemani stated that on March 2, 2019, two Ewura inspectors, Eng Emmanuel Panja and Eng Ibrahim Kajugusi, inspected the facility to check the compliance of the law in relation to the operations undertaken therein. Eng Selemani, the Technical Manager (Petroleum) of the applicant, stated that it was observed during the inspection that the operations in the facility are conducted in violation of the law and in a manner that was detrimental to health, safety and environmental requirements. Specifically it was observed that the facility was not paved with impervious materials to prevent spillage of oils and waste oils to the ground and personnel therein were not provided with Personal Preventive Equipment (PPE) contrary to health, safety and environmental (HSE) requirements and the law. He stated that the facility has been constructed without applying and obtaining a Construction Approval from the Applicant as required by Section 127 (1) of the Petroleum Act and Rule 4 of the Petroleum (Waste Oils Recycling Operations) Rules. Furthermore, according to the affidavit, the facility has been operating without applying and obtaining a license from Ewura, contrary to Section 131 (1) of the Petroleum Act and Rule 11 of the Petroleum (Waste Oils Recycling Operations) Rules, GN No. 220/2017.