TOYOTA Tanzania has pledged to continue supporting various sport disciplines which fall under the umbrella of Tanzania Paralympic Committee (TPC) as one way to groom future athletes. The company's Assistant Marketing Manager Kenneth Nchimbi highlighted this over the weekend at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam where a national Paralympic games have been staged since 2005. A lot of different competitions colored the day ranging from wheelchair racing, javelin, powerlifting and running as athletes drawn from different parts of the city showcased what they are capable of doing when given a platform to shine. "Naturally, we are a mobility company as we help people to move from one place to another but we have decided to venture into sports especially paralympics in order to help in grooming talented athletes. "These athletes are Tanzanians meaning that if they are properly nurtured, they will be able to represent us well on the world stage and in such doing, flying high the national flag," Nchimbi said. He further narrated that they have been impressed by the vision of TPC which aims at uplifting sports among disabled people to make them feel part of the community they live in plus improving their health. "Generally, TPC needs a lot of support from different stakeholders to make it stable but, unfortunately, they do not usually get the deserved help in comparison with other sport sectors, something which should be changed. "We are working abreast with the National Sports Council (NSC) to ensure that together, we create a good environment for these athletes to flourish and make them strong competitors," said him. On his part, TPC Vice President Vincent Kaduma urged parents and guardians to let their disabled children engage in sport disciplines which they can easily participate in. "For us, we do create a conducive environment for these athletes to play as such, we expect good cooperation from their parents and guardians to keep pushing for its success," he said. He also lauded massive support rendered by Toyota Tanzania to TPC which facilitated for this year's contest to be made while urging other stakeholders to also come forward and support them. Also, NSC Games Sports Officer Alen Alex reiterated that the government will continue to play a key part in enhancing sports by making good policies to accommodate disabled athletes across the country.