AZAM have announced the return to action of defender Nicholas Wadada who was sidelined for an extended period due to injury as they intensify preparations for their approaching NBC Premier League match against Young Africans on March 6th. The two sides meet at Azam Complex in Chamazi, Dar es Salaam to battle for maximum three points as the race towards the season’s top throne intensifies. Hosts Azam will be lungs out trying to reduce the existing 20-point gap with leaders Yanga who command the championship race with 48 points after playing 18 games while the Chamazi-based giants have reaped 28 points from 18-game outings. Writing on their official Instagram account, Azam posted a photo of the Ugandan defender captioned ‘Back from Injury’ hence his return is likely set to boost the team’s defence prior to the big match. Both teams go into the game with heads up after winning their 18th round fixtures with Azam defeating Namungo 2-1 at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi, a match which saw striker Prince Dube netting his first goal of the campaign. It was a morale sparkling results for Abdihamid Moallin’s side, who prior to that his team played three matches without a win. The team officially started training sessions on Thursday at their turf ready to end Yanga’s unbeaten run of the season which could extend to 19 matches if they fail to stamp success on the day. They also played a friendly match against Somalia at the same venue where they triumphed 3-1 to give a warning signal to their upcoming league opponents that they are ready to host them. On the other hand, Yanga defeated KMC 2-0 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium as they continue to clear their path towards the Premier League title at the end of the season. An own goal from Andrew Vicent and a towering header by full-back Juma Shaban helped the Jangwani Street-based club to bag essential three points. Yanga have now scored a total of 31 goals and conceded 4 goals in the process to be the only team so far which has conceded few goals from the played 18 games. Azam and Namungo have tied at the second slot after each netting 22 goals while the defending champions Simba are third with 21 goals. KMC who have fired home 20 goals are placed fourth.