WOMEN have been advised to formalise their groups by setting up registered economic platforms which will enable them to access interest-free loans announced recently by President Samia Suluhu Hassan during the commemorations of International Women's Day. Speaking during the celebrations of International Women’s Day organised by Daughters of Mary Immaculate Women’s World held over the weekend at St Joseph University in Ubungo District, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Women Cross Party (TWCP) national coordinator Dr Ave-Maria Semakafu called upon women to grab the opportunity which is set to transform their businesses. According to the activist, the free-interest loans will empower women economically as they will be able to venture into manufacturing sectors including industries and agriculture. “I heard President Samia talking about establishment of women's economic platforms. This is a rare opportunity for us. The loans will reach out to those who will be in formalized groups,” Dr Semakafu said encouraging women who attended the event to change the status of their groups to be registered economic platforms. She emphasized that not everyone stands a chance to access the highly anticipated loans instead only those who were in the formal system as she urged women groups under DMI to take advantage of the opportunity. Ubungo District Commissioner Kherry James, who represented the Minister for Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups, Dr Dorothy Gwajima at the well-attended event, said International Women's Day reminded the society of the importance and eradicated negative attitudes towards the group. DC directed the Ubungo Community Development Department to ensure that the DMI women's group is officially registered to have access to the loan while warning officers not to bring bureaucracy in the exercise. For her part, DMI Women's Chairperson, Isabella Maembe said the aim of establishing the group in 2003, was to liberate mothers and children as well as to empower them economically through various development activities. “In the Dar es Salaam, DMI has reached 15 localities in the region, with 1,200 members through its community development programme. "DMI is committed to loving and serving all people in need, especially women and children, to enable them to achieve social and economic development goals," said Ms Maembe. Addressing the commemorations of International Women's Day, Unguja in Zanzibar, President Samia Suluhu Hassan said the government was set to issue interest-free loans to empower women economically. According to the Head of State, the government was in the discussion with major country’s banks namely; CRDB and NMB to set up a special window for issuing such loans.