TANZANIA’S prospects of joining the prestigious Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) exporters club have received a major boost during President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s one year in office. The government has revived host government agreement (HGA) negotiations with international energy companies, Anglo-Dutch giant Shell and Norwegian major, Equinor for construction of a liquefied natural gas plant in Lindi Region for the estimated 57 trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves in southern regions of Lindi and Mtwara. The two international oil majors plan to feed gas from offshore blocks 1, 2 and 4 to a 10 million tonnes per annum to the LNG plant whose investment cost has been scaled up to 40 billion US dollars from 30 billion US dollars, President Samia said in an interview with Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) which reflected on her first year in the office. The HGA, set for completion by the end of May, will underpin the entire project and establish the commercial, fiscal and legal framework to ensure the project can move ahead. The negotiations kicked off in Arusha in November last year for the project which is expected to put the nation on a path of economic development and energy independence. President Samia showed strong determination to push ahead with the project right from the beginning when she directed the Ministry of Energy to speed up negotiations with investors for the project and take onboard investors who are ready to start its implementation. That was in early April, last year and barely two weeks after she was sworn in as President of Tanzania. “We have been singing the LNG song for a very long time, I remember when I was sworn in as the VicePresident I tried to work on it, but discovered it was beyond me and stopped,” she said during the swearing in of ministers and permanent secretaries she had appointed. President Samia said it was time to understand who was serious for the project and who was not. “We should do what we did when we decided to start construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and we all saw how they came back seeking to be put on board,” she said. Fast forward to October, President Samia held a virtual meeting with Royal Dutch Shell Chief Executive Officer, Ben van Beurden to discuss progress in the longdelayed LNG project. Mr Beurden was grateful to President Samia for her efforts and determination in creating conducive investment environment for the liquefied natural gas project in Tanzania President Samia, also thanked the Royal Dutch Shell boss for the interest to invest in the project, the statement said. The Minister of Energy, January Makamba held talks with Paul McCafferty, the vice president of Equinor’s Africa upstream business in October ahead of the HGA negotiations. The minister said via his twitter account that the talks was part of preparations for the negotiations on the HGA convention for the (LNG) project which are expected to officially start on 8 November 2021. “We both expressed optimism about the invest ability of the Tanzania LNG project. We will start negotiations on 8 November,” unveiled Mr Makamba. An Equinor spokesperson is reported by Upstream Online, a global oil, gas and energy news resource saying that McCafferty’s meeting with the energy minister was constructive. “We had a good meeting with the Minister for Energy, (January) Makamba, an opportunity which we appreciate. We are pleased with the minister’s assured commitment towards the upcoming negotiations and the goal of realising the LNG project in Tanzania. “The Tanzania LNG investors have been engaging with the government of Tanzania and continue to be pleased about the partnership, co-operation and opportunities associated with the largest potential investment in the country’s history.” And Shell’s Head of Integrated Gas Wael Sawan was quoted by Reuters last week as saying they have made good progress with the government in recent months in the negotiations. “We have seen some real quick progress over the last year compared to what had been a much slower progress before and we continue to be hopeful that we can take this project all the way through to FID (final investment decision) at some stage,” said Sawan. Sawan had told reporters that some fiscal disputes “have now been resolved,” according to the news agency