If one seeks to know the minimum insurance premium for a building protection against calamities, including fire, they should take the total value of such property, multiply to 0.15, plus 18 percent of the Value Added Tax (VAT). However, two buildings might have the same value, but not the same minimum premium rates due to the difference in their geographical location. For instance, the owner of a building located along the main road or adjacent to a petrol station should pay more, because the property is prone to vehicle and fire accidents. “Even a house that is surrounded by other buildings is at risk because it might catch fire which has originated from a nearby house,” says the Zanzibar Insurance Corporation (ZIC) Lake Zone Manager, Mr Dotto Kanyoro, during a recent insurance education workshop to journalists that was organized by Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA). He says that ZIC has also been hesitating to serve clients whose buildings are at flood prone areas, because they are too exposed to serious loss. “Normally, ZIC engages valuers to visit our prospective clients and offer advice before we get into a contract. If somebody’s property is at serious risk, we refrain from offering the services,” he says. He says that not only building owners, but also tenants are advised to have insurance cover for their belongings in their respective renting homes. “The person should apply the same formula (property value, multiply by 0.15, plus 18%) to know the minimum premium rate,” he says. Mr Kanyoro says that a tenant is also directed to communicate with the insurer once he or she makes an addition of home appliances for fresh premium rate calculation. Communication is also a must when a tenant is shifting to another renting home, not only for fresh premium calculation, but also to observe the possible risks at the new residence that might trigger an increase in insurance service payments (if any). Mr Kanyoro further says that the aim of an insurance cover is to return the client back to their former status after a calamity. However, he clarified that such a general contract in the insurance industry does not forbid the insurers to get in more agreements that could benefit both sides, as long as no law is breached. ZIC has been grabbing such opportunities, getting into agreements with its various clients, including private car owners (with comprehensive insurance), for additional services. Usually, general insurance contracts cover only a private car and third-party (properties or road users who are involved in a road accident), after the driver (with comprehensive insurance) is found guilty, said Mr kanyoro. For additional services therefore, a private car owner should top up 25,000/- to minimum premium, for each seat in the car, to let ZIC cover the driver and family members. In case of road accidents, ZIC pays for medical or funeral services not beyond 5m/- for every victim in the car. Once the vehicle is in need of towing service, ZIC makes it, paying not beyond 150,000 within the city/town as well as offering not over 1m/- for small loss one has experienced during the accident, like loss of a mobile phone. ZIC officer, Ms Husna Malango chipped in that clients are also allowed to top up 0.25 percent, equal to 20,000/-, to  minimum premium, for more additional insurance services which have been excluded in the insurance general contracts, like terrorism and political instability damages. NBC Bank officer, Mr Abdul Farahan, asked the journalists to keep on encouraging members of the public to have insurance covers not only for their belongings, but also for personal economic growth. He said that NBC in collaboration with other insurance stakeholders, including the Jubilee Insurance Company encourage and offer agriculture, livestock, fish farming and forest insurance services. Experts visit farmers for advice on crops to be grown on a certain area, in line with the available soil type. According to him, agriculture insurance is in phases, the first (phase) involves farm preparations, followed by sowing and weeding and then harvesting. “A beneficiary should pay a minimum premium of 25,000/- per acre. Insurance services are mostly for floods impacts, drought and destructive insects. We also top up compensations in case our client hasn’t met an expected profit,” he said. For forest covers, NBC goes for regular evaluation and allow clients to pay different amounts for insurance services according to how the trees are grown. Commenting on livestock insurance, Mr Farahan said the pastoralists have to protect their animals from calamities, especially diseases. The Bank also offers compensation packages in case the animals are butchered before the targeted time to avoid deaths that might be caused by diseases. Fish insurance is after experts have determined the number of fish to be accommodated in the available water space, he further explained. “Experts are also directing kinds of food for fish, so as to have the best products which can compete in markets,” said Mr Farahan. TIRA Lake Zone Manager, Mr Sharif Ally Hamad, encouraged the journalists to disseminate insurance education to community members for personal and the nation’s development. He recommended small scale traders, known as ‘machinga’ to be among the first groups to have fire insurance knowledge and services, so as to avoid calamities they normally face. “We have been witnessing the way this group is usually affected by fire accidents in various parts of our country. The same applies in school hostels. People must take action now, you journalists should keep on educating the mass to avoid unnecessary loss,” he advised.