SAME district residents in Kilimanjaro Region have thanked President Samia Suluhu Hassan for fulfilling her promise she made of providing funds for the improvement of Hedaru and Miyamba Wards health centers. The appreciations were expressed by Same District Commissioner (DC) Mr Edward Mpogoro during a working visit of the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC) Mr Stephen Kagaigai in the district over the weekend during which the RC inspected the implementation of various projects within the district. “President Samia promised to provide the funds after the people of the area spoke to her on the challenges they were facing in seeking health services, including walking long distances in search for services”, he said. He said at Miyamba Village and the surrounding areas, people are forced to walk 18 kilometres to seek health services. The completion of the health facilities would help more than 15,000 citizens. “President Samia promised to approve 500m/- of which, we have already received through our district council. The implementation of the Miyamba Health Centre has begun, we’ll ensure it is completed in time,” he said. Regarding Hedaru Health Centre, Mr Mpogoro said President Samia promised a total of 400m/-, which he said had already been disbursed ready for the project to kick off. “Upon its completion, the project will benefit more than 24,000 residents of Hedaru and others from the surrounding wards thus relieving them of the burden of traveling more than 40 kilometres to Same District Hospital to access health services,” he said. Speaking during his visit, Mr Kagaigai called on contractors tasked with executing the projects to ensure they complete the work as soon as possible. He said the government has given priority to health services that is why President Samia did not hesitate to fulfill the promises she made. Mang’a Village Chairman, Johnson Nyorido commended the government for providing funds for the projects, which he said would be of great help to citizens, especially pregnant women. “Women have been the biggest victims of the challenge of lack of quality health care in this area. Some of them have lost their lives while giving birth; we thank President Samia and her government for the funding,” he added.