TANZANIA surfing sport star Moses Ntilema is still upbeat to compete in Japan World Masters games and the World Lifesaving Championship to be held in Italy September 2022. However, Ntilema is saddened to see no Tanzanian team took interest in African Lifesaving Championship which was held in Egypt in February this year. But last week on Saturday 12th, Ntilema was  back in South Africa to compete for the top throne in the Eastern Cape Masters championship which is an important qualifying event for the South Africa’s national level, DHL South African Lifesaving Championship. Ntilema will compete in the masters’ categories at the DHL National Lifesaving Championship scheduled to take place at King Beach in Ggebertha, Port Elizabeth from today, and March 20th to 26th this year. He said this is a big event as its best performers will be selected to participate as team South Africa in the Lifesaving World Championship in Italy. Ntilema has been a member of Bluewater Surf Lifesaving Club since 2016 and he has joined other South Africa athletes in the squad for Lifesaving World Championships. He explained: “It is very hard and tough to win in any event at the national level here since South Africa is leading in Lifesaving Sports as they won the 2022 African Lifesaving Championship in Egypt. Ntilema added that he wants to keep his status as he believes is a competent in both seniors and masters championships, but this time he wants to focus on master’s event which involves athletes aged between 30 to 49 years. “I will compete in six out of twelve events. I'm sure I will win some of the events as we are required to win one of the events to qualify for the international competitions. “I have tried many times to request for Tanzanians support to our athletes, but all in vain, ” he said. He said he would like the National Sport Council (NSC) to support him as it is an open or individual athlete event. But when I compete in the World Masters Game and win, Tanzanian flag will be raised.