…Tasked to restore peace THE Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is officially the new member of the bloc after East African Community (EAC) Heads of State admitted the continent’s second largest country to the community. The mineral-rich nation will however have to wait for the signing of the treaty of the accession by the Summit’s Chairperson, Uhuru Kenyatta. The EAC’s new entrant to the trading bloc will also have to deposit the instruments of ratification with the Secretary General, before September 29th this year for it to fully participate in the activities of the regional bloc, which are in line with the pillars of regional integration. Admitting the country through a video conference held at the EAC headquarters yesterday, the Summit urged the DRC to work on restoring peace. “While it is good for the country to join the bloc, it is still imperative to work closely on the issue of peace in Eastern Congo,” Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni said. Mr Museveni also hinted that Zambia once attempted to join the EAC with no avail, describing DRC’s feat as of great significance. On her part, Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan said the move will set another milestone in the region, in the community and the continent at large. Ms Samia, who also reiterated Dar es Salaam’s commitment to regional integration, informed DRC’s President Félix Antoine Tshisekedi on the wealth of opportunities and benefits it stands to reap from being a member of the trading bloc. “I’m optimistic that DRC will ratify the treaty to accession within the specified time to allow Congolese to be fully integrated,” explained the Head of State. Ms Samia further commended the Council of Ministers for the excellent coordination in verification and ultimate admission of DRC into EAC. In his inaugural statement delivered in French language, Mr Tshisekedi expressed gratitude to his colleagues for allowing his country to be part of the community. “The Congolese will forever be grateful to you because EAC is doing great in terms of economic integration and movement of people,” he said. Mr Tshisekedi however called for the creation of a new organ within the EAC that will solely be focused on safeguarding natural resources in the region. The region now has 300 million people, with the latest introduction of DRC to the bloc. It will also boast of a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 157 billion US dollars after the former’s entry. Currently, 30 per cent of what is consumed in the DRC comes from China, while 11 per cent is from East Africa. EAC Secretary General, Peter Mathuki hinted that the country will greatly benefit from the presence of Dar es Salaam and Mombasa ports in Tanzania and Kenya respectively. DRC first applied for EAC’s entry in February 2018. What followed was a series of verification missions to the mineral-rich country before its eventual admission. DRC shares borders with five of the EAC Partner States, namely; Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and South Sudan. It has established existing cooperation programmes with various Partner States at bilateral and multi-lateral level. Its addition to the community now sees the Members totaling seven. 