THE shilling has continued to hold steady despite rising political and market unrest due to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. The shilling was steady at the closing of the foreign exchange market on Monday at 2,301/2,335/- levels against the US dollar. NMB daily market report said the shilling was steady against the greenback after trading flat against the dollar on Monday’s session despite the market being fair liquid. “… (The) increased appetite has been observed from importers (SMEs, oil marketing companies and manufacturers) with minimum support from NGOs and Agri inflows,” the NMB report said. The shilling according to Bank of Tanzania data showed that last Friday the local currency traded at 2,309/63, while on Monday minutely to 2,309/71 and yesterday at 2,309/74. Orbit Securities said on its weekly market synopsis that the shilling faces a tough trial of its strength against a greenback due to the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine accompanied by sanctions imposed on Moscow. “With the rising of political unrest in the west, and the recent hike in oil prices the shilling is in for another trial of its strength against the greenback [this week],” Orbit said. The Kenyan shilling was under fresh pressure against the dollar after it hit a new record low on Monday, setting up the country for more expensive imports and debt servicing distress. Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) data shows the shilling hit a record low to exchange at an average of 113.94 on Monday. Bloomberg quoted the shilling trading at 114 against the dollar at some point in the day. Elsewhere, the South African rand weakens along with emerging market peers as investors moved back to the dollar and other safe-haven assets. The South African rand steadied against the US dollar early yesterday, as markets paused for breath after tumbling in recent sessions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The rand was largely steady at about 15.3600 against the dollar. The rand had weakened more than 2.0 per cent on Monday, to hit 15.4933, as the fallout from tougher sanctions imposed by the West on Russia and the deepening crisis rippled across financial markets and hit risk appetite.