MINISTER of State in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG),Innocent Bashungwa has said henceforth, the ministry will not entertain recycling of incompetent and public servants His latest announcement came hardly hours after President Samia Suluhu Hassan warned the ministryover lenient disciplinary measures imposed against errant public servants. Minister Bashungwa told a press conference here yesterday that his ministry will work closely with the President's Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance (PO PSMGG) Ministry, so that those found with disciplinary misconduct should no longer be demoted and transferred to other areas but rather removed from government service. “Recycling of public servants with disciplinary misconduct issues is like spreading the virus to other areas, this will no longer be entertained… public service management will be contacted so that such staff are replaced with newly recruited, we have a good number of qualified graduates who can fill their posts,” he insisted. Mr Bashungwa said the ministry's staff must be guided by integrity and ethical conducts in their service delivery and should paint a good picture as the few public servants should not tarnish their good image. He advocated for team work, directing the Regional and District commissioners to ensure they deal with embezzlers at the very beginning and take proper action for smooth implementation of development projects. "RC and DC you must deal with discipline and ethics of public servants in your respective areas and take proper action in time in case of misconduct" he insisted The ministry, he said, will be guided by rules, regulations and laws of public servants, directing them to monitor revenue collection and expenditure for value for money of development projects. In another development,Mr Bashungwa has opened an online window for 2021-Form Four leavers to change combinations as per their academic results. Mr Bashungwa said the window was opened yesterday and will be closed on April 19, 2022. He advised parents and students to use the online platform and observe deadlines to avoid unnecessary delays for opportunities put up by the government.