SIMBA Head Coach Pablo Franco lauded his charges for executing the game plan to claim a vital 1-0 win  over RS Berkane at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The Msimbazi Street Reds maintained their reputation of using home ground advantage after registering their second victory of their group stage campaign of the CAF Confederation Cup as they ascended to the top of group D with seven points. With the hard earned win, the country's representatives in the CAF Interclub games have two games to play before the end of the group stage and that will decide if they deserve a place in the tournament’s quarter final stage. Simba must win  two remaining matches once they want to play in the last eight stage. Senegalese Pape Sakho was hero on the day as his strike before the interval was enough to hand the Msimbazi street giants vital three points.They avenged for the painful 2-0 loss they picked in the first leg meeting in Berkane, Morocco. "We are happy with the victory even though the game was tough, but we played well and managed to contain them. I think we executed our game plan by not committing too many fouls in our territory," said the Spanish trainer. He also disclosed that in the first meeting in Morocco, Berkane were better than them, but on Sunday, Simba were in great form thereby managing to grab the convincing victory. Also, giving his reaction after Simba's triumph was Taifa Stars player, Simon Msuva who hailed the home team saying they should now start thinking of away matches not only home duels. "They played good football and the most important thing to them is the victory. To win at home for Simba is what they are capable of doing as such; time is here for them to do the same when playing in away matches," Msuva said. Again, Msuva said that the city's hot and humid weather partly contributed to Berkane's downfall saying in Morocco, they are facing a winter season and most of their matches are played at night. On his part, the Moroccan side Head Coach Florent Ibenge congratulated Simba for the win saying they will make sure to return back to winning ways in their remaining two encounters. "We have lost but there are still two matches to play of which we need to register good results to stand a good chance of qualifying into the next round of the competition," he said. It was his second defeat of the campaign with both coming in away clashes hence they are yet to stamp a win in a foreign land and the remaining two clashes will be crucial to all teams in group D. Simba who top the ladder with seven points have another tricky assignment against ASEC Mimosas on March 20th where a win will see them reaching 10 points before winding up the campaign with a home encounter against USGN.