THE government has saved 1.9 bn/- after the medical experts performed bone marrow transplant to 11 patients since the service was officially introduced in the country at the end of last year. The 11 patients underwent the procedure at Muhimbili National Hospital Upanga and Mloganzila. According to experts at MNH the transplant is performed to patients whose stem cells have been damaged or destroyed due to diseases or conditions like sickle cell, leukemia and some types of cancers. The procedure also known as stem cell transplant is done by replacing damaged or destroyed bone marrow with healthy bone marrow stem cells. The commencement  of these  services  is a milestone  in the country's  health sector  as it strive  to  become  a medical  tourism hub. MNH Mloganzila  Deputy Executive Director, Dr Julieth Magandi said that  the cost of sending  one patient  for treatment abroad  can cost  between  200m/- and 250m/- but when the patient  is treated in the country will have to pay only  70m/- . "This is a milestone in the country on bone marrow transplant whereby the service is now available at an average cost of 70m/- per patient," she said. Dr Magandi said bone marrow transplant treatment was introduced in the country on November 29, last year and five patients underwent the transplantation. She made the remarks at MNH Mloganzila premises, when four patients out of six who underwent the procedure were discharged. The the two patients were not yet discharged due to the delay during admission at the hospital and they are waiting to finish up their treatment so that they can fully recover and continue with their daily lives," She further said transplantation exercises involved 80 per cent of local experts while 20 per cent were foreign experts. "We applauded the government's efforts through the Ministry of Health to improve health services and Tanzania becoming the first country to provide this service in the East and Central African region, as well as the sixth country in Africa," she added. According to her, the MINH's current plans are to treat at least 6 patients per month from February 2022, due to the presence of specialists, the conducive and modern infrastructure available thanks to the government for  investing  6.2 bn/- to facilitate the commencement  of the service. A Hematologist at MNH, Dr Stella Rwezaura explained the transplanting experience was good and they continue to learn new things.  She also said that  there are  local experts  who received  training from outside the country to continue strengthening the services. "We are proud as a country and thanked our government for the huge investment in bone marrow transplant, "she said. Dr Rwezaura said last year there were 5 patients underwent bone marrow transplant on Multiple Myeloma while this year 6 patients underwent both Lymphoma and Multiple Myeloma. According to experts, Multiple myeloma (MM) and lymphoma are both cancers that affect cells in a person's blood. MM is a cancer of plasma cells, while lymphoma is a cancer of lymphocytes. She added that due to their experience they can now provide treatment and handle the patients because the hospitals have conducive environment for performing the procedure.