KISARAWE District Commissioner Nickson Simon has participated in a tree planting exercise in 12 schools within the district as efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change. The tree planting exercise was held yesterday at Kisarawe Secondary School where 3,000 tree seedlings of which 1,000 for orange, 1000 mango and 1000 shade trees worth 10m/- were planted. "I would like to express my  gratitude to Platinum Institute, which deals with affordable loans to all employees in the country, for recognizing the importance of bringing these fruit trees that will be of great benefits to schools as well as caring for the environment due to climate change," said Nickson. He also said that, the tree planting exercise is  one of the ways to support  the  government in preserving environment. He also said that, deforestation challenge in Kisarawe district is mainly due to high level of charcoal harvesting as many people in this area use charcoal and firewood as a source of cooking energy. The DC also asked other stakeholders to co-operate with the Minister of State Office of the Vice President (Union and Environment), Selemani Jafo in his campaign of planting trees nationwide to meet the challenge of global climate change as well as to enhance the environment in the country. The DC also urged students to study hard as the government and various stakeholders are making great efforts to ensure that they improve the learning environment. “If the student concentrate  on studies  and spend most of their  in school  it will help  will be in a better position  of performing  well  in their  exams," he  said. On her side, Platinum Credit  Ltd   Managing Director   Doris Lyakurwa  said that the tree planting exercise  was  organized as support to e various schools in the Kisarawe district “I would like to encourage various stakeholders and organizations to come and support our government which has been making great strides in caring for the environment by having various campaigns that focus on tree planting” said Lyakurwa. She also said that the exercise is one of their  responsibilities in the community, that is, to give back to  the community. That is why the company has decided to come to the schools and bring fruit trees that will be of great benefit to them. The MD  also commended the effort by  President Samia Suluhu  Hassan  for being at the forefront in encouraging  issues related to environment protection. On his part, Headmaster at Kisarawe Secondary School Fannuel Nicodemus  expressed gratitude  to Platinum Credit Ltd  for supporting them with tree seedlings  because they will be in a better position  to  fulfill the order given by  Mr Jaffo  which  require  every student  to plant one tree.