MOROGORO Region working together with the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) on Wednesday launched new efforts to make the region Tanzania’s reliable food basket. Addressing a two-day meeting which brought together experts from the private and public sectors, Morogoro Regional Commissioner, Martine Shigela pledged here that the region will spare no effort in working with SAGCOT and Agricultural Seed Agency (ASA) in transforming the region’s farming by empowering the region’s “hardworking smallholders.” “We salute SAGCOT for its efforts in transforming small-scale farmers by exposing them to appropriate knowledge related to crop husbandry so that farming becomes efficient and rewarding.  This meeting is just a start. We shall have other meetings bringing together leaders of political parties, cooperatives, farmers’ associations, agro-processors, financial institutions and agri-buyers,” Mr Shigela pledged. SAGCOT uses the cluster approach in grouping together regions in order to implement agreed on initiatives. In this case, Morogoro region is biggest chunk of the SAGCOT’s Kilombero Cluster. Experts say over 90 percent of the region’s six districts of Gairo, Mvomero, Morogoro, Kilosa, Kilombero and Ulanga have beautiful arable land and the region is gifted with a temperate climate allowing farming of cereals and many varieties of horticultural crops. Seventy-one percent of the regions residents are engaged in agricultural activities. “Agriculture remains the main economic activity of the region’s private households and 79 percent of the region’s households are in rural areas engaged in farming,” state statistics of the 2012 Population and Housing Census availed to reporters at the meeting that is also jointly backed by the ASA. The statistics show that out of the region’s 501,794 households, 375,838 households or 74.9 are employed in agriculture and 79.1 rural households are active in farming. Kilosa District has the biggest farming households (80,772), followed by Kilombero (75,047), Mvomero (57,806) Morogoro (56,675), Ulanga (45,098), Morogoro Municipality (27,949) and Gairo (32,491). The SAGCOT Chief Executive Officer, Mr Geoffrey Kirenga told the meeting that Tanzanians expect the meeting to come up with practical proposals on making agriculture increase its contribution to the gross domestic product and national food security because, he said, the region is gifted with huge areas of arable land.  “The aim of this meeting is to see how agriculture can increase national wealth and remain friendly to the environment,” he said. ASA Chief Executive Officer, Dr Sophia Kashenge, pledged that the agency will produce quality seeds.  “We have the ability to produce the kind of seeds that will promote agricultural efficiency and increase the farmer’s disposable income,” she assured. The meeting drew representatives from the public and private sectors. SAGCOT is an international public-private sector partnership which works with regional authorities in a bid to transform chosen areas’ agricultural productivity. One of SAGCOT’s expected outcomes by 2030 is to have “some 350,000 hectares in profitable production, serving regional and international markets and tens of thousands of smallholders become commercial farmers, with access to irrigation and weather insurance.” Morogoro Region has one of Tanzania’s biggest rivers, Kilombero River and several small rivers. 