ARUSHA Gymkhana Club (AGC)’s Nuru Mollel claimed victory as Tanzania picked its eight golf pros who will represent the country in the European Tour competition. Mollel was drafted after winning the Mount Kilimanjaro Classic, which served as a qualifier for the European Tour. Mollel produced a brilliant display in the Road to Kilimanjaro Classic after beating the field of 17 Tanzanian pros who competed in the 36-hole qualifying battle held at the Kili golf club course in Arusha over the weekend. He started the day with sound note after returning a one-over 74 strokes to inter final round with a shot lead and closed the race with 79 gross to stamp 153 total strokes. Frank Mwinuka from Tanzania People’s Defense Forces (TPDF) Lugalo of Dar es Salaam finished second with 154 total score from 75 he carded on the day one and carved 79 strokesin the final round. Isaac Wanyeche finished third overall with 155 total strokes. Others who made it into the European Tour slots are Bryceson Nyenza who carved 157 total score, Fadhili Nkya who penned 157 of Lugalo. Others are John Leonce from ARC who carded 158, Elisante Lembris with 162 while Lugalo’s Abdallah Yusufu had aggregate 165 score to conclude the list. The European Tour, an event that brings together over 156 golfers from across the world, is scheduled to tee off from April 4th to 10th this year at the Kili Golf Club. Jointly organised by Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) and Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB) and bankrolled by the Government, the event aims to boost Tanzania tourism. The event will be co-sanctioned by the Challenge Tour and Sunshine Tour. Tanzania Professional Golf Association (TPGA) Chairman, John Bosco said the qualifying event went well though he said there many things Tanzanians need to improve. Bosco said: “In fact, when golf is viewed from an international level we are still very far away. “The main difference between us and others is preparation. Some start playing at a very young age, learning golf as we do in mathematics. Bosco said the preparation includes psychologically, players need mental game training to be ready for a big show. Adding: “The scores of the pros are the real situation. What we are looking for first is experience and talent development.” He said it will take time to reach out to others. But the goal now is not to reach them, but to improve our game to some extent.