FINANCIAL sector is essentially the lifeblood of the economy. When it is healthy, it provides businesses and consumers with access to the credit, plus capital and investments vital to a healthy and growing economy. But when it’s sick... it can weaken the whole system.” The above quote from an unknown author in 2015 with reference to the US economy, speaks volumes about the importance of the financial sector to the economy and, by extension, a strong financial sector for economic growth and development. The financial services sector is the primary driver of the economy as it provides a free flow of capital and liquidity in the economy. It goes that way; when the sector is strong, the economy grows as empirical studies show there is a correlation between strong financial sector development and economic growth. The stronger it becomes, the bigger its contribution to growth and development, all things being equal. It is no wonder that economists and financial experts have a famous maxim; ‘the financial system is the lifeline of a country’s economy,’ which explains why it is a primary concern for policy makers to ensure the financial service sector remains stable and strong so that it can develop economies by boosting productivity and promoting growth. The government has always been keen to maintain stability and development of the financial service sectors through various policy measures to make it effective in driving growth through enhancing productivity. When the Covid-19 global pandemic battered world economies through trade disruptions, Tanzania was not spared. The economy which was enjoying robust growth, averaging 6.7 percent from 2010-2019, experienced a slow growth of 4.8 per cent in 2020 from 7 per cent in the preceding year, according to Bank of Tanzania (BoT) statistics. What happened? The pandemic had affected economic activities, partly due to lockdown measures and travel restrictions implemented in countries which trade with Tanzania. Tourism, one of the key sources of foreign exchange and an important sector for job and business creation was severely affected. The government had been taking measures to lessen the impact of the pandemic to economic activities and promote growth. It introduced policy measures through the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Tanzania to maintain stability in the financial sector that had experienced negative impacts from challenges of the Covid-19 global pandemic. These measures included the ease of requirements on statutory minimum reserves (SMR), discount rates, haircuts on government securities, regulatory flexibility on restructuring loans, transaction limits plus daily balance amounts for mobile money operators. In July last year, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) issued a public notice on the policy measures to promote credit to the private sector and lower interest rates, as part of its drive to spur economic recovery and stability in Tanzania. The Notice sets five considerations targeted in the agriculture sector, agent banking business, mobile money trust account balances, special loans and the reduction of risk weight on loans. Special loans The Bank of Tanzania introduced a special loan amounting to 1.0tri/- to banks and other financial institutions for on-lending to the private sector. The special loan was provided to banks and financial institutions at three per cent per annum and where banks must charge an interest rate not exceeding ten per cent per annum on private sector loans The measure is intended to increase liquidity to banks and reduce lending rates. Statutory minimum reserve requirement (SMR) The BoT lowered statutory minimum reserve requirement (SMR) for banks that extend credit to agriculture at an interest rate below ten per cent per annum. The reduction would be equivalent to the loan extended and would reduce the interest rate on loans in Tanzania’s agriculture sector. The main objective was to promote lending in the agricultural sector, the mainstay of the economy. It also aimed at reducing interest rates on loans to agriculture. Agent banking The Bank of Tanzania removed the regulatory requirement of business experience of at least 18 months for applicants of agent banking business. Instead, applicants for agent banking business would only be required to have a national identity card or national identification number. This policy measure is expected to contribute to increase in loanable funds to banks through deposit mobilization. The measure also intends to lower lending rates.