VICE-PRESIDENT Philip Mpango on Monday held talks with the Ambassador of Sweden in Tanzania, Mr Anders Sjöberg, stressing on environment protection and the need to take mitigating measures against climate change effects. “We have to put a lot of emphasis on making sure that we take care of the environment and mitigate against the negative effects of climate change,” Dr Mpango remarked during the meeting with the Swedish envoy at the Dodoma State House in Chamwino. Dr Mpango noted that during the recent United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) meeting held in Nairobi, Kenya, member countries reached an agreement to collectively address plastic wastes since all countries are affected by the problem. The VP also emphasized on planting of trees and addressing challenges associated with solid and liquid waste in addition to environmental degradation. Dr Mpango was categorical that the sixth phase government gives a lot of priority in conserving the environment due to the fact that environment degradation has a lot of effects including shortage of rains which are crucial to the people, agriculture and livestock keeping. He further implored developed countries with technologies to work with Tanzania in protecting the environment and addressing effects of climate change. For his part, Ambassador Sjöberg commended the government of Tanzania for its efforts in the conservation of the environment across the country. The envoy also extended an invitation by the government of Sweden to the vice-president to attend an international meeting on the environment to commemorate 50 years since the declaration of environment conservation which was held in Stockholm, Sweden in 1972. Mr Sjöberg said the international meeting will bring together heads of state and government from different countries all over the world to discuss measures of addressing environment degradation which has become a threat to the world at present. “In order to deal with effects of environment degradation there is a need for joint efforts between countries to deal with the challenge,” he stated. The ambassador affirmed the commitment by his country to work with Tanzania in developing various projects in renewable energies and building capacity of the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) on legislation related to environment supervision.