IT was an eye-opener and unique experience to see young disabled children joyfully dancing and singing together. Yes, disabled children, fellow human beings with emotions, need to have a good time of enjoying their lives and be granted freedom of choosing and doing what they prefer as good for them. It was last Sunday of the month of February this year that can be earmarked as to have been a special day that children which special needs who are studying in Dar es Salaam special schools had a chance of showing their happiness through arts of singing, listening to local musing, imitating it and having fun together. This was after one of the faith-based organizations in Tanzania, known as Satya Sai Society of Tanzania (SSST) prepared a together lunch on 27th Feb this year for disabled children in Dar es Salaam region. The lunch ceremony involved a total of 250 children with special needs studying at Yombo Vituka vocational college and others from Uhuru Mchanganyiko school. Both of the schools are based in Ilala municipality while the former had 150 children, the latter had 100 of them. The event took place at Uhuru Mchanganyiko Blind school located just adjacent to Kariakoo market in the heart of Dar es Salaam city. Before the timetable kicked off, the children had almost one hour of listening and dancing to some music by local artists. They were somehow familiar with the music. It was stunning to learn they some with visual impairment, yet they were miraculously attuned to the music vocals, volumes, and the location of the stage. Some of the bling children while dancing, they could as well sing alongside the song played without missing or confusing a word. Strange enough, was for blind children dancing in an area demarcated as the main stage for the day without getting lost into other locations. Apart from dancing, singing, and imitating songs, one thing among them was the level of love they showed to one another. They would hold other hands, hug, laugh together and share words in the ears as a sign of having a friendship that is genuine. “Today, SSST members are giving support from their own contribution to the needs of fellow human beings. It is through children with special needs so that they may, stop feeling as secluded but feel be part of a big member of the community. “This is a part of putting into action the teachings of Sri Satya Sai Baba who established and run a faith cult with many followers across India, the Asian continent, and to other parts of the globe,” said Mr SSST Trustee member Mr. Nathumal Sajnani. Also, provisions apart from lunch were toiletries and other items which are needed to make life easier and better for all of the disabled children involved. SSST has dished out a hand of support to the needy elderly ahead of festival seasons in Azimio Suburb, Mabibo ward of Ubungo District. Mr Sajnani said that this is not the first time his society moving out to serve humanity in hard times. But it has been doing so from time to time to needy people of different ages and groups to ensure that there is an endless smile upon their faces. Some of the support provided in the past includes food items and garments were given to more than 100 poor elders who reside in Azimio Suburb, Mabibo ward of Ubungo District. This was last year and the aid was given out to express the language of love which is commonly expressed by the world’s major religions. SSST gives out gifts that are meant to have beneficiaries enjoy life especially in special moments like religious special days or at end of the year holidays which include Christmas and the end of the year. The aid which is as a result of donations from hard-earned earnings is given to all identified needy families regardless of their color, tribes, or creed which is the only true religion, the religion of love to fellow humanity. The items do include two kilograms of rice, flour, beans, cooking oil, and drinking water. Also, a piece of kanga which are meant to have elders guard the elders’ bodies in times of cold. “I am very grateful for receiving these items which I needed very much. I will exchange my meals for better and I will call for more donations from other well-wishers as I have no one to hold my hand,” Mr. Daudi Florian (80) told the daily news as he walked away with the donation on his head. Azimio suburb chairperson Mr. Raphael Mlaga, thanked SSST members for their routine support to needy people in his area, saying that society was helping make the lives of his people better. SSST members which believed in the saying of the cult founder, ‘love all serve all’ have been also supporting needy children at Uhuru Mchanganyiko primary school in Ilala district. The support being given includes maintaining the school infrastructures, supporting the availability of three meals a day, and supplying the school with computers. This service at the special school started in 1990 to the present day SSST was founded by an Indian spiritual guru, Sri Satya Sai Baba, who established and ran a faith cult with many followers across India, the Asian continent, and other parts of the globe. Sri Sathya Sai Baba was born in 1926 and died in 2011 at the age of 84. He began his role as a spiritual/universal teacher at a very young age through folk songs, theatre, exposition from scriptures, and personal examples of the virtues of living a purposeful life. For more than five decades, Sri Sathya Sai Baba is considered by many to have communicated his message of love, universality, and spirituality to a diverse audience from different faiths, countries, cultures, and traditions. “Love All Serve All – Help Ever Hurt Never” was his common motto in most of his teachings. He founded Sri Sathya Sai International Organisation (SSSIO), a spiritual and humanitarian nongovernmental organization in the 1960s. The organization primarily works in areas of education and humanitarian aid in India and internationally.