PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan’s important move toward developing and recognition of women athletes’ efforts in the country has had an immediate impact in just a year at helm it has been leant. President had this ambition to boost women in sports, soon after she was sworn in a year ago and when she named her first cabinet in April 2020 following the death of President John Magufuli. She also threw in Pauline Gekul as a Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports into a task to put more efforts in developing and supporting women sports and it paid off. When Tanzania U-17 team won the COSAFA Championship in 2021 President Samia saw the brave girls didn’t receive recognition they deserved and said: “Women have been doing well in sports, but they always don’t get decorations like men’s teams and they have not been rewarded. We won’t repeat it again in my tenure!” In just a year President Samia has identified herself as a leader of all Tanzanians during an occasion to award Tanzania women team, Twiga Stars players plots of land in Dodoma after clinching COSAFA Cup in South Africa October last year. The President stated Twiga Stars deserved the award since they fought for the country’s prestige. Twiga Stars were crowned Champion after defeating Malawi 1-0 in the final. A year later, the team’s captain, Amina Ally, thanked the President and wished her the best when marking one year in the office: She said: “First of all, I would like to extend my sincere compliments to our dear Mother, President Samia. For a short period of her leadership she has supported a large part of our team (Twiga stars), but all this is due to her passion in sports, She has become a role model for every sports-loving leader,” said Ally. Adding, she said: “She not only waits for the team until it does well, but she has been able to make a big contribution (money and motivations) while the team is preparing for the tournament. Will always remember her for what has done, like giving us plots in Dodoma. It’s a huge reward.” The skipper stressed that the COSAFA Trophy they won was due to the President Samia’s backing or else they wouldn’t have won it. “She has been doing a wonderful job in helping national youth teams engaged in various global tournaments including the World Cup qualifiers. “She has been instrumental in promoting women’s soccer in East and Central East Africa as well as being the sponsor of the 2021 CECAFA East African club competition.” “I appeal to President, to fight harder for us,” said Ally Zena Chande, a Tanzania Women Football Association (TWFA) official and a Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) general assembly representative believes under President Samia the national women’s team Twiga Stars are heading for a new dawn. “President Samia has been at the forefront in fighting for the development of the women athletes. She was the Matron of the Twiga Stars when she was Vice President).” “We believe under her guidance, women soccer players will benefit a lot from the game. We will keep holding our hands and we will not let her down,” said Chande. In retrospect, Devota Marwa, a Tanzania Netball Association (CHANETA) Chairperson says women’s sports have taken a step forward in Tanzania during the one-year reign under President Samia. “She succeeded in motivating and promoting sports especially for women. Sports have been given a different priority, currently national teams are sponsored by the government and so the national cup tournament.” Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) secretary general Mwenze Kabinda also complimented President Samia and said within one year they have seen success in sports development especially in basketball. “We have seen development in different areas including participation - the number of girls appearing in the game has increased due to the enthusiasm they have gained as well as the deliberate efforts to build a women’s basketball team. “The participation of girls in the game has increased due to many private schools launching special capacity building programs for girls.” Kabinda added that the number of girls participating in the game has increased due to the improvement in the game environment by being given the same opportunity as the boys to compete and build capacity. “Challenges still exist although they continue to decline, the great challenge is social norms which discourage a girl child to participate effectively in sports and opportunity to nurture and develop her talent.” Athletes also commended Tanzania’s sports achievement under President Samia as noted Tanzanian marathoner Failuna Abdi Matanga, who represented Tanzania in Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Failuna insists Athletics can regain the lost glory as the government under Samia is committed to revive and develop to the desired global level. “Under Samia we see a bright future,” says Failuna who finished 24th in the Tokyo Olympics marathon after clocking 2:33:58. All sports who talked with Daily News together wish President Samia success in her endeavor to develop sports since the sector plays a major role in both economically and socially.