PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has directed the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office Policy, Coordination and Parliamentary Affairs Ambassador Pindi Chana to draft regulations outlining how political parties should hold public rallies. The Head of State issued the directive on Saturday at the Chamwino State House in Dodoma after receiving preliminary resolutions from the task group she formed to monitor issues presented during a political stakeholders meeting held on December 15 to 17, last year. President Samia has directed the Minister to prepare such regulations in collaboration with the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) and the Zanzibar Law Society (ZLS). The 24-member task force, which is directly accountable to President Samia, presented the resolutions that are divided into three implementation timelines. A short-term resolution is the drafting of rules that will guide the process of holding rallies of political parties.  Some of the medium-term resolutions include Corruption and Electoral Matters, Grants, Civic Education, while issues about the Electoral and New Constitution are long-term plans. The directives come three months after President Samia said that she was ready to lift the ban on political rallies provided that all parties would agree to maintain the country's peace, harmony and tranquility for development. She said this at the opening of the political stakeholders meeting and expressed the government's readiness to allow politicians to exhibit political maturity by refraining from vulgar politics that could create instability and disrupt national development. Ms Samia who officiated the meeting ordered the police force to meet with all registered political parties and other stakeholders to discuss and agree on the best means to conduct the rallies while adhering to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The president stated quite clearly that she was willing, able, and ready to accept criticism, listen to advice, and forgive when she was offended. She did, however, urge party chairpersons to make sure that their parties follow the law. She went on to emphasize on responsible and clean politics, saying politicians should avoid issuing inflammatory remarks likely to derail peoples' development. Democracy stakeholders, council members, non-council member-political parties, clerics, government and non-governmental institutions attended the political stakeholders meeting, which was organized by the office of the Registrar of Political Parties in collaboration with the Political Parties Council. President Samia also highlighted her goal to unite the country by getting everyone on board during the three-day debate on the state of multi-party democracy in the country. Ms Samia reminded politicians to perform their activities according to the country's governing laws, insisting that no one was above the law. Speaking at her first meeting with political parties, Ms Samia, on the other hand, stressed that her government was open to constructive criticism, adding that citizens, civil society organizations (CSOs), and politicians should be alert about government actions and raise attention to flaws to improve governance. President Samia further stated that she was aware that CSOs deal with people daily, particularly at the grassroots level, and that as a result, they can communicate people's problems to the government for action. Speaking at the occasion, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said by holding the meeting with political stakeholders, Tanzania had demonstrated before the world that it had maintained the culture to have a dialogue with the political class and other stakeholders to discuss issues that are of national interest. "I want to assure the political party's council that the government will intensify collaboration with all stakeholders to strengthen unity, peace and harmony for the entire nation," said Mr Majaliwa.