TANZANIAN Madina Iddi marked Women's Day in Entebbe, Uganda with a silver medal which she won after finishing overall runner up in the Entebbe Ladies Open over the weekend. The 12th edition of Entebbe Ladies Golf Open, held to celebrate the International Women’s Day that is marked annually on March 8th. Madina, who was the only Tanzanian player in this year's Entebbe Ladies Open at Entebbe golf course in Uganda, was happy to represent the country well in the 36- hole event that brought together golfers from Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Sweden and Iceland. She started the first day slowly with 78 gross, before improving it to 75 gross in the final round to collect 153 total strokes at par 71 course. She finished three shots inferior to champion, Peace Kabasweka of Uganda who penned 150 strokes. The second place was enough for Madina to foot home a good prize of a return air ticket provided by Uganda Airline. “I went there to win the title; I tried very hard for that. But my first round I understand was very difficult since I arrived in Uganda at night and in the morning I was ready for a tee off. “Even though I had not tested the course, I couldn’t care less since I know as a golfer I should be ready for any challenge, am glad I managed to finish second in the full of top players,” she said. Madina herself made history at the event after winning the title in 2013 and was looking for the second one. She stressed that the prize she got motivated her preparation for the Uganda Ladies Open later this year. Madina noted: “I’m happy that now I am sure of the transport to Uganda, all I need is preparation and other arrangements before going for the Uganda Ladies Open.” She said the tournament also helped her to prepare for the All-Africa Challenge Trophy (AACT) that Tanzania will host for the first time in September this year at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) course. Madina set sight to retaining an individual AACT trophy that she won in 2018 in the event held in Accra, Ghana when Tanzania finished overall second.