TANZANIA Distilleries Limited (TDL) is incurring an average of 19.5bn/- losses in revenue annually due to rampant trade in illicit and counterfeit alcohol brands. The TDL which is a subsidiary of Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) said also that trade of illicit and counterfeit alcohol brands is causing the government loss of 11.5bn/- annually. This was unveiled during a site visit by the members of Parliament from the Parliamentary Committee on Trade, Industry and the Environment at the TDL plant in Temeke, Dar es Salaam, yesterday. “The illicit trade is significantly influenced by the price of alcohol in the market and the growth of informal markets that became rampant following government measures to reduce alcohol consumption by increasing the excise rate. It also results from the poor control of ethanol in the country,” said TBL’s, Legal and Corporate Affairs Director, Mesiya Mwangoka. According to data obtained by the distillery, the majority of the illicit counterfeit brands are distributed in the country’s southern regions, followed by northern regions, the southern highlands and the Lake Zone. Most of the recorded losses have emanated from counterfeit versions of TDL’s flagship Konyagi brand. Leading the delegation, Deputy Minister for Industries, Trade and Investment, Exaud Kigahe said the government through FCC will work on the outlined challenges by first mapping out factories that produce illicit spirits to legalise them so that they can compete fairly in the market with giants like TDL, adding that the government will also engage TBS to inspects standards of the beverages. Regarding the counterfeit brands, the deputy minister said the government will do a thorough investigation and thereafter take measures against those running this business, noting that such manufacturers are killing well established and trusted brands and putting the health of consumers at risk. Illicit and counterfeit alcoholic products do not only affect manufactures and the government in terms of revenues, but also pose a significant health risk to consumers since they are unregulated and may contain toxic additives. “We urge the government to enforce strong laws against the culprits, to impose strong control measures in all borders through the Tanzania Revenue Authority, and to continue to work in partnership towards the socio-economic development of Tanzania,” Mwangoka concluded.