THE National Identification Authority (NIDA) has managed to produce a total of 3.07 million national identity cards in the past one year. Out of the produced cards, 2,872,220 have been collected by wananchi. However, the authority is eyeing to boost production of the IDs by maximizing capacity of available state-of-the-art machines to produce a total of 4,500 IDs per hour. Highlighting achievements registered by the authority since President Samia Suluhu Hassan assumed office, NIDA’s Head of Communication Unit, Geoffrey Tengeneza told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the authority has collected 20.5bn/-, up from 17.5bn/- collected in the corresponding period last year. “The amount was collected under the data sharing system….NIDA has so far collected an extra 3bn/- this year, representing an increase of 85.3 per cent,” he said. He added that in the past one year, NIDA connected five more districts with a data sharing system, the National Information and Communications Technology Broadband Backbone (NICTBB). So far, 133 districts have been linked to the system while Kyerwa and Nyang’hwale councils are in the pipeline. Mentioning another area of achievement, Mr Tengeneza said NIDA database can be accessed by 52 more public and private stakeholders through a data sharing system, a move that is boosting efficiency in various institutions. Until yesterday, a total of 58 institutions had already been connected to NIDA’s system, of which 25 are public institutions while the remaining 32 are from the private sector. “In a period of one year, the authority has created 14 systems. The authority is no longer relying on contractors,” he added. The authority has also constructed a datacenter, data recovery centre and supplied ICT devices as well as constructing 13 offices in both Mainland and Zanzibar. Speaking to journalists early this week, Minister for Home Affairs, Engineer Masauni Hamad Masauni said NIDA has already produced a total of 10,756,674 IDs, of which, 9,652,852 have been collected by wananchi.