The  International women’s  Day  celebrations  for  the  year 2022,  happily  coincided  with  President  Samia  Suluhu  Hassan’s  first  anniversary  in  the  office  of  President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  which  falls   on  19th  March,  2022. In  last  week’s  article  (which  also  focused  on  International  Women’s  Day),  we  discussed   President   Julius Nyerere’s  serious  concern  for  the  plight  of  African  women;   and  his  immense  contributions  to  the  cause  of  women’s  advancement ,  particularly  in  the  area  of  governance. In  today’s  article,  we  will  focus  on  President  Samia’s first  year  in  office.   But  before  we  do  that,  we  will  first  complete  last  week’s  story,  by  narrating    incidents   which  confirm  President  Nyerere’s  dedicated  efforts  in  promoting the  advancement  of   women  in  politics.    He went to  great  lengths  to  achieve  this  objective. Soon  after  he  came  to  power  after  the  achievement  of  the  country’s  independence,  Mwalimu  Nyerere  appointed  the  first  women  Ministers,  who  were  also   the  first  ever  constituency  elected  Members of Parliament;   Bibi  Titi   Mohamed   (Rufiji)   and   Mwami  Theresa  Ntare (Kasulu). I  was  the  Clerk  of   the  National  Assembly  at  the  material  time,  and  can  vividly   remember   Bibi  Titi  Mohamed’s  plight  in  handling  her  new  responsibilities  inside  Parliament. The  cruel  circumstances  surrounding  her  childhood,  had   denied  her  the  opportunity  to  obtain  any  formal   school  education.  But  she  now  had  to  operate  in  the  sophisticated  work  of  government,  whose  business  normally  “moves  on  paper”,  and   in  a  Parliament,  whose  proceedings  were conducted  mainly  through  reference  to  documents,  such  as   government  Bills,   which  were  all   written  in  English !  But  she  managed.    “Given  the  opportunity,  a  woman  will  surely  perform”. There  is  also  the   different  case  relating  to  Bernadette  Kunambi  (one  of  the  first  few  women  to  be  appointed  District  Commissioners  in   the  1970s);  which  illustrates  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  determination  to  enable  women  to  participate  in  political  leadership  roles. This  was  the  case  of  Bernadette  Kunambi,  whom  President  Nyerere  had  appointed   District  Commissioner,  and  posted  to  Morogoro   District.   However,  her  husband,  Chief  Patrick  Kunambi,  who  was  residing  in  Dar es Salaam,  flatly refused  to  accompany  his  wife  to  Morogoro   to  live  with  her  and   at  least  provide   moral  support  to   her  in  her  new  leadership   responsibilities. It was that  Chief  Kunambi   claimed that   ‘it  was  against  their  tribal  customs  and  tradition,  for  a  man  to  follow  his  wife  who  had  left  their  matrimonial  home  and  moved  to  a  different  residence”. President  Nyerere,  in  his  abundant    wisdom,  directed  that  Bernadette  Kunambi  be  posted  to  Ilala,  the  District, so  as   to  enable  her  to  operate  conveniently   from  their  family  home. There  are  other  instances  which  illustrate  Mwalimu  Nyerere’s  determination  to  promote  women’s  participation  or  advancement  in  political  leadership;   but  editorial  space  limitations  prevent  me  from  narrating  them  in  this  short  presentation. On women  at  the  apex  of   power. A  short  run  ‘down  memory  lane,“quickly  brought   me  to  the ancient  period  of  the  reign  of  the  English  Queen  Elizabeth I,  who  was  the  ruler  of   that  country  at  the  time  of  the   “Spanish  armada”  in  1588.   Those  were,  indeed,  the  ‘bad  old  days’  which  are  depicted  by  William  Shakespeare’s   in  Hamlet,  1 : 2 ,  in  the  obnoxious  phrase:  “Frailty,  thy  name  is  woman!”.   In  this  context,  the  word   “frailty”  means  “ incurable  weakness  inherent   in  the  female   gender’;   which  is,  clearly,  an  insult. The said   ‘Spanish  armada’  was  an  invasion  fleet consisting of 130  warships,  which  was  sent  by   King  Phillip  II  of  Spain,   transporting   his  army  across  the  English  channel,   on  a  mission  “to  invade  England,   and  overthrow  the  heretic  Queen  Elizabeth  I”.   It  is  on  record  that  “on  its  approach  to  the  English  shores,   the  Queen  said  the  following  in  a  speech  at  Tilbury:-                            “I  know I  have  the  body  of  a  weak  and  feeble  woman,  but  I  have  the  heart   and  stomach  of  a   king,  and  of  a  King  of  England  too.” This  statement  was,  in  a  way,  a  show  of  genuine  self-confidence;  and  clearly   demonstrates  a  woman’s   sensitivity  to  the misconceived  male  perception  that  a  woman  is  ‘unequal  to  man’  in  terms  of   courage  and/or   ability  to  perform,  or  deliver;  which  obviously  echoes  Shakespeare’s  words  quoted  above,  namely:   “frailty,  thy  name  is  woman”! In  our  case,   very   similar,  or  identical   sensitivity,  was  demonstrated  by  President  Samia  ,  upon  her  accession  to  the  Presidency;   when  she  said  the  following  in  her  inaugural,  maiden  speech,  to  Parliament on  22nd  April,  2021:-  “ Ni  mara  ya  kwanza  katika  historia  ya  nchi  yetu,   kupata  Rais  mwanamke.  Kwa  sabau  hiyo,  najua  watakuwapo  baadhi ya  watu  ambao  wanadhani  kuwa sitaweza  kutekeleza  majukumu  mazito  ya  Urais.   Nataka  kuwaondoa  hofu  hiyo  kwa  kusema  kwamba  Mwenyezi  Mungu   hakuumba  ubongo  dhaifu  kwa mwanamke,  na  ubongo  makini  kwa  mwanaume.   La  hasha.   Wote  tulizaliwa  ukiwa  sawa.  Makuzi  na  umakini  wa  akili,  vinategemea  jamii  na  shughuli  zinazokuzunguka.  Nataka  kuwahakikishieni,   kwamba  mimi  nimekuzwa  katika  jamii  sahihi,  na  kwamba  ninao  uzoefu  wa  kutosha  kwa  kazi  hii”.  In  other  words,  she  was  effectively  dismissing  that  primitive   notion  of  a  “woman’s  inherent   frailty”;  and,  indeed,   her  performance  during  her  first  year  in  office  has  proved,  beyond  any  doubt,  that  she  is  absolutely  equal  to  the  task. President  Samia’s  first  year  in  office. In  my  new  autography  book  that  I  completed  writing  just  before  the  2020  general  election;  and  which   has  just  been  published  by  Nyambari  Nyangwine  Publishers,  Dar es Salaam,   titled “The  story  of  my  life  in  the  service  of my  nation”;  I   ventured  to  look  ahead  into  what  was  to  be  expected  during  what  would  have   been  the  late  President  John Magufuli’s   second  term (2020 – 2025);  and  predicted  that  it  would  be  nothing  other  than  “Magufulification  continued,  and  accelerated”. This  was  in  the  light   of  his  impressive,  unprecedented,  unique,  and  admirable   ‘style  of  leadership’,   which  he  had  displayed  during  his  first  term;  and  which  had  led  some   dedicated  academicians  to  ‘invent’  a  new  term  “Magufulification”  to  describe  the  effects  of  his  actions. This  term and  concept   was,  reportedly,  “coined  by  some  Magufuli  admirers  in  Zimbabwe  (New  Zimbwe,  2016)     quickly  followed  by  others   in  Tanzania,  who  posted   that  “President  Magufuli’s  style  of  leadership  needs   to  be  given  a  ‘conceptual’  dress,  so  that  it  could  be  seriously   studied,  and  analyzed,  in  order  for  other  leaders   to  benefit  from  it”. And  even  myself,  together  with  my  academic  friend  Nkwazi  Mhango,  who  currently   lives  and  works  in  Canada;   were   so  enthused  and  motivated,  that  we  decided   to  co-author  a  book,  to  which  we  gave  the  title  “Magufulification”;  that   we  completed  and  submitted  to  the  publishers    GDY  Publications  Co.  Ltd.   of  Dar es Salaam ,  during  the  year  2019. But  alas,  all   these  “great  expectation”  for  Magufuli’s  second  term,  unfortunately    never  materialized.    Apparently  in  fulfillment  of  the  religious  dictum  of  “Man  proposes,  God  disposes”;  President  Magufuli  died  suddenly  on  17th  March,  2021;  hardly  three  months  into  his second  term.   Thus,  by  simple  operation  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  the  then  Vice  President,  Samia  Suluhu  Hassan,  was  accordingly   sworn  into  office  as  the  successor  President ,  on  19th  March,  2021.    Hence,  she  will   complete  her  first  successful  year  in  the  office  of  President   a  little   later  this  month,  on  that  date. Why  she  is  the  ‘sixth phase’  President. It   should  be  noted  that  in  their  conception,  these  numerical  figures  were  designed  to  mean  that  the  ‘governance  phases”  were    the  ‘general  election  phases’;  which  must  be   differentiated  from  the  individual  persons  who  hold  office  during  those  ‘governance  phases’. Thus,  for  example,   the  term  of  office  the  “first  phase”  President  Julius  Nyerere,  commenced  on  9th  December,  1962,  the  day  when  Tanganyika  became a  Republic .  This  was  in  the  middle  of  the  independence  “governance  phase”,  which  had  commenced  much  earlier,  with  the  general  election  of  1960;   and  ended  with  the  next  following  general  election  of  1965.    It  is  precisely  on  that  basis  that  President  Samia’s   “sixth   governance  phase”  commenced  at  the  time  of  the  premature  termination  by  death,  of  the  fifth  phase  President  Magufuli. President  Samia’s  ‘surpise  extraordinary  performance’. Over  the  last  few  weeks,   both  the  print,  and  the  social  media,  have  been carrying  detailed  information  regarding   what  may  be  described  as  President  Samia’s   ‘surprise   extraordinary  performance’    in  all  the   governance  sectors  during  her  first  year  in  office.  A  well-known  Kiswahili  proverb  says   that  “Nyota  njema,  huonekana  asubuhi”.  This  saying  is  totally  applicable  when  assessing  President  Samia’s  ‘extraordinary’   performance  during  her  first  year  in  that   office.  For  she  has  shown  the  kind  of  firmness,  and  determination,  that  many  casual  observers  had  probably  not  expected  to  see. By  all  counts,  she  has  clearly  demonstrated  that  she  all  that   it  takes  to  make  a  successful  President.   And,  in  the  words  of  the  English   Queen  Elizabeth I  quoted  above;   she  “may  have  the  feeble  and  weak  body  of  a  woman,  but  she  has  the  heart  and  stomach  of  a  President,  and  of  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  too”! This  also  reminds  me  of  the  words  of  the  former  British  Prime  Minister  Tony  Blair, who  said the  following  on  his  assumption  of  office  after  his  Labour  party’s    landslide   electoral   victory  against  the  Conservatives:  “we  will  keep  what  is  good  and  working;  but  we’ll  change  what  needs  to  be  changed”.   If  I  may  be  permitted  to  call  this  the  “Blair  doctrine”,  I  venture  to  say  that  President  Samia  Suluhu  Hassan  is  evidentially  a  dedicated   follower  of  this  doctrine.  For,  through  her  popular  slogan  of  “Kazi  iendelee”,  she  has   not  only  kept  all  that  was  ‘good  and  working’ projects  that  were  initiated  by  her  predecessor   in  terms  of  mega  infrastructure  development  projects;  but  she  has  also  substantially  changed  all  that  “needed  to  be  changed”. The  initial  indicator  was  her  first  cabinet  reshuffle,  in  which  she  retained  all  the Ministers  who  had  been  appointed  by  President  Magufuli.  However,  when  the  time  came  for   appointing  the  Permanent  Secretaries,  and  the  other  Heads  of  Public  Organizations;    she  figuratively  “went  fishing  in  the   vast  deep  blue   sea  of  the public  service,  and  made  her  own  catch’.                                              And  the  fact  that  she  subsequently  fired  some  of   the  late  Magufuli’s   Ministers,  and  replaced  them  with  her  own  choices;   was  also  indicative  of  her  determination  to  “keep  what  is  good  and  working,  but  to  change  what  needs  to  be  changed”. Furthermore,   her  major  policy  statements  relating  to  economic  diplomacy,  plus  her  own  active  participation  by  her  frequent   travels  to   international  functions  and  events,  have  hugely  enhanced  Tanzania’s   image  internationally,  with  consequential  economic  benefits  accruing  there from. For  example,  her  directive  to  the  Tanzania  Revenue  Authority (TRA)  “to  avoid  the  use  of  force  in  the  collection  of  taxes”,  when  she  said  “using  unnecessary  force  in  the  collection  of  taxes,  such  as  closing  the  tax  payer’s  Bang  accounts,  or  forcibly  taking  money  from  such  accounts  just  because  the  law  allows  you  to  do  so,  is  unacceptable,  and  must  stop”. This  directive  seems  to  have  provoked  reaction  from  the  European  Union (EU)  Business  Group  Executive  Director Cikay   Richards,  who  commented  that  “the  President’s  statement  regarding  the  need  for  a  friendly  tax  regime,  was  very  encouraging  to  international  investors,  and  has  exuded  new  hopes,  and  given  a  boost  to  their  confidence”. And  this  has  indeed  taken  place,  as  evidenced  by  the  increasing  number  of  foreign  and  local  investors  who  have   made,  or  committed  themselves  to  make,  large-scale  new  investments  in  the  country   during  President  Samia’s  first  year  in  office. piomsekwa@gmail.com   /   0754767576. 