REMARKABLE strides have been registered in delivering social services during President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s first year in office, with a mammoth sum of 1.49tri/- channeled towards improving education, health and road infrastructures. Ahead of March 19 commemoration of President Samia’s one year in office, the Minister of State in the President's Office - Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG) Innocent Bashungwa highlighted the achievements recorded by the sixth phase government so far, reiterating the president’s committed to improving the citizen welfare by investing in long-lasting projects. “The ministry has so far received 1.49tri/- that has been dished out to improving education, health, and road infrastructure sectors,” Minister Bashungwa told the media, regional administrator secretaries (RASs), and directors from 184 councils in Dodoma on Tuesday. Bashungwa said that President Samia has always emphasized on proper execution of the projects and spending of public funds, to ensure sustainable economic development for the current and future generations. He praised President Samia for being pragmatic in spending 576 million US dollars (about 1.3tri/-) Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), meant to address the impact brought about by Covid-19. President Samia directed the money to be used to implement development projects in the education, water, health and tourism sectors. “Our president is focusing on long term projects, for instance on that Covid-19 funds, instead of using them for paying allowances, she directed it be channeled to build classes to help our children to study in a conducive environment,” Bashungwa said. Massive improvement in school infrastructures Bashungwa said during the one year of President Samia, the education sector has received a massive 662.32bn/-, which has been used to build 257 new secondary schools and nine primary schools. The funds have also been channeled towards construction of 18,219 classrooms for primary, satellite and secondary schools and completed the construction of 4,525 classrooms for primary and secondary schools. He added that the funds have also been used for the construction of 1,399 laboratory rooms, construction of 568 toilets for primary and secondary schools, and execution of 170 dormitories for primary and secondary schools projects. Mr Bashungwa said the funds have also been used for the completion of 42 teachers' houses for primary and secondary schools and 11 laboratories for secondary schools. He said the government has also completed construction of six halls and four administration blocks for secondary schools and completion of four old primary and secondary schools. Furthermore, Minister Bashungwa said a sum of 72.96bn/- is expected to be received for the period March to June 2022, which will be used for the construction of 300 classrooms for model pre-primary schools, 221 laboratory rooms, construction of 3,468 classrooms for primary and secondary schools, construction of 20 dormitories for special needs students and for renovation of 346 primary school teachers’ centers. He said the government will also build more classrooms for Advance Level in ten selected schools.  Enhancing health services delivery Minister Bashungwa said under President Samia’s leadership his docket has received 234.41bn/- for improving health services delivery across the country. He revealed that the funds were used to construct 288 health centers, 28 new hospitals, 26 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facilities and construction of 80 emergency medical departments. The minister added that the funds were also spent on the construction of one epidemiology center, construction of 150 houses for hospital workers in different peripheral councils and procurement of medical equipment for 31 hospitals. Through the funds, the government completed the construction of dispensaries 615, completion of 68 council hospitals, whose execution started in the 2018/19 financial year. He said that the docket is expected to receive 263.72bn/- from March to June 2022, which will be used for the construction of 288 health centers, 28 new hospitals, and completing construction of 167 dispensaries. Mr Bashungwa hinted that the money will also be used to procure 195 ambulances, Oxygen Ventilation System, Digital Radiation Machine, and 212 vehicles as well as conducting short-term training for staff and temporary employees. More rural roads built President Samia’s one year in office has witnessed tangible achievement in the government’s quest to improve road infrastructure, whereby a total of 597bn/- has so far been released for the construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of district roads managed by the Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA). Minister Bashungwa revealed that in the past one year, TARURA has constructed 213.36km of tarmac roads, 1,152.33km of gravel roads, and maintenance of 25,059.4km of roads. He added that the agency also constructed 201 bridges and construction of 123.05km of water drainage systems. Mr Bashungwa said that 430.88bn/- is expected to be disbursed for the period of March to June 2022 for the construction, maintenance, and rehabilitation of district roads, including the construction of 257.20km of tarmac roads,12,511.06km of gravel roads, 81 bridges, and maintenance of 2,945.08km long roads. The minister reminded the local authorities' leaders to enhance good governance, including improving the local government secretariat. The objective, he said, is to ensure efficiency in supervision of the funds released by the central government for the execution of development projects. Minister Bashungwa said that during the one year of President Samia, the flow of development funds has significantly increased, insisting that the need for transparency and accountability to ensure all funds are used in the intended projects. “We have a huge debt to the people of Tanzania to deliver to them the promises we made during the 2020 general election campaign that are also included in the CCM manifesto. So, let's join hands to help President Samia to accomplish that mission,” he told the local government leaders, who are in Dodoma for the pre-budgeting meeting. He ordered the local government to be accountable for any development project allocated in their areas, insisting that the government will not tolerate laziness or ineffectiveness. Additionally, he reminded them to be innovative to initiate the project that could help to solve the challenges that exist in their jurisdictions, including ending the shortage of toilet pits, which now stands at 209,572 for primary and 44,603 for secondary schools. “In the coming financial year, everyone should come with a strategic plan on how to end that challenge, don't wait for directives from the president, she has big issues to deal with… help her for those in your areas of jurisdiction,” he advised.