SIMBA have lifted lid on speculations that their former playmaker Louis Miquissone is on the verge to return to the club next season. Lately, information concerning the Mozambican player making a U-turn from the Egyptian giants, Al Ahly have been awash forcing Simba’s Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally to make clarification on the matter. “Every Simba fan will be happy to hear Miquissoine has returned and those who are not in Simba family, will have fever upon hearing the news. “We sold him because of football business but the truth is that we still need him. We respect his contract at Al Ahly, but if the opportunity will arise for him to get back at Simba, let me assure you that it will be a great news for all Simba fraternity,” he said. He added: “If Al Ahly decide to put Miquissone on the market with affordable conditions, he will be in red and white outfit next season for serving his former club.” If Miquissone succeeds to re-join Simba, then he will follow the footsteps of midfielder Clatous Chama who also re-united with the Msimbazi Street Reds from Morocco’s side RS Berkane. In another development, Ally disclosed that there is a number of Simba players whose contracts are nearing completion saying they will wait for the full report from Head Coach Pablo Franco to decide who leaves or stays. “It is true that we have many players who are in final stages of their contracts but as a club, we will wait for the final report from our coach which will provide a good insight of the position of the club. “For now, our focus is on the next CAF Confederation Cup match against US Gendarmerie on April 3rd at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium of which we need to stamp victory to sail to into the tournament’s quarterfinals,” he said. According to him, Simba players are set to regroup tomorrow to begin official preparations for the decisive encounter insisting that they will try to use well home ground advantage. “We are fully concentrating on the USGN match and not otherwise. We are working a lot to get amicable ways on how to defeat them (USGN) for us to march forward into the contest,” he said. The country’s solo envoys in CAF Interclub games will be searching to maintain their unbeaten home record in the progressing confederation cup group stage after outclassing ASEC Mimosas (3-1) and RS Berkane (1-0) respectively. As it stands in group D, ASEC Mimosas lead the pile with 9 points followed by RS Berkane who have pocketed 7 points while Simba are third placed with 7 points whereas USGN sit at the bottom with 5 points in the bag.