WITH only one year in office, President Samia Suluhu Hassan has demonstrated how committed she is in restoring political dialogue, freedom and reconciliation in the country, with the recent handshake with Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA) Chairman, Mr Freeman Mbowe, bringing new hope for the nation. With the gesture, the Head of State opened a new chapter after meeting Mr Mbowe at Magogoni State House in Dar es Salaam, just after he was acquitted of terrorism charges, where the two leaders held talks on various issues for the interest of the nation. Of course, it was a closed-door meeting, but after it, President Samia stated that it was all about building a new nation out of cooperation and mutual understanding between Tanzanians regardless of their political or religious stances. On the same day, she met President Hassan at the Magogoni State House where both through video clips informed the public of their agreement to hold constructive, trustful, respectful and unification politics for the interest of the country. On his part, the opposition leader said while he appreciates President Samia’s efforts to cultivate peace, his party also has a role to play and they intend to offer support and cooperation to build a united Tanzania. Until March 4, 2022, the Chairman of the Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA) party and three others were being held in custody facing various charges, including that of planning acts of terrorism. The Chadema kingpin together with other senior party officials were arrested last July 2021, in a night raid in Mwanza, ahead of their planned public rally which was supposed to be held in demand of the country’s constitutional reforms. Thereafter, they have been appearing before courts of law for the last seven months until their recent release. As it happens, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) declared through ‘Nolle Proseque’ statement, that the Republic had no interest to pursue the matter further. Mr Mbowe allayed fears to party cadres, members and supporters, saying they met to set the framework that would enable the country to conduct peaceful and just politics. The 61-year-old politician urged them to follow the philosophy of Martin Luther King, which is centred on forgiveness, love and patience. In what appeared to equally win Tanzanians’ hearts and the international community in healing and reconciliation, President Samia had also met and talked with the Deputy Chairperson of the same political party, Mr Tundu Lissu in Brussels, Belgium on February 16. Mr Lissu who contested for presidency on CHADEMA ticket in 2020 General Election flew to exile in Belgium immediately after the announcement of election results, which saw him losing to the late Dr John Magufuli. The President held talks with Advocate Lissu abroad, shortly after attending the meeting that brought together the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States (OACPS). A statement by Hassan’s State House said the president met Lissu in Brussels at the latter’s request. The president and Mr Lissu, the statement said, “discussed various issues of mutual interest on the state of the Tanzanian nation”. Just five days ago, the Head of State brought yet another hope for politicians in the country after she directed the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office Policy, Coordination and Parliamentary Affairs Ambassador Pindi Chana to draft regulations outlining how political parties should hold public rallies. President Samia issued the directive at the Chamwino State House in Dodoma after receiving preliminary resolutions from the taskforce she formed to monitor issues presented during a political stakeholders meeting held on December 15 to 17, last year. The president directed the Minister to prepare such regulations in collaboration with the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) and the Zanzibar Law Society (ZLS). The 24-member task force, which is directly accountable to the president, presented the resolutions that are divided into three implementation timelines. A short-term resolution is the drafting of rules that will guide the process of holding rallies of political parties. Some of the medium-term resolutions include Corruption and Electoral Matters, Grants, Civic Education, while issues about the Electoral and New Constitution are long-term plans. The directives come three months after President Samia said that she was ready to lift the ban on political rallies provided that parties agree to maintain the country's peace, harmony and tranquility for the sake of development. She said this at the opening of the political stakeholders meeting and expressed the government's readiness to allow politicians to exhibit political maturity by refraining from vulgar politics that could create instability and disrupt national development. Ms Samia who graced the meeting ordered the police force to meet with all registered political parties and other stakeholders to discuss and agree on the best means to conduct the rallies, while adhering to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The president stated quite clearly that she was willing, able, and ready to accept criticism, listen to advice, and forgive when she was offended. She did, however, urge party chairpersons to make sure that their parties follow the law. She further emphasizes on responsible and clean politics, saying politicians should avoid issuing inflammatory remarks likely to derail peoples' development. Democracy stakeholders, council members, non-council member-political parties, clerics, government and non-governmental institutions attended the political stakeholders meeting, which was organized by the office of the Registrar of Political Parties in collaboration with the Political Parties Council. President Samia also highlighted her goal to unite the country by getting everyone on board during the three-day debate on the state of multi-party democracy in the country. Equally, she reminded politicians to perform their activities according to the country's governing laws, insisting that no one was above the law. Speaking at her first meeting with political parties, President Samia, on the other hand, stressed that her government was open to constructive criticism, adding that citizens, civil society organizations (CSOs), and politicians should be alert about government actions and raise attention to improve governance.