Malnutrition is a condition that results from getting food that is deficient in nutrients or in large quantities to the point of causing health problems. It is often used to refer specifically to malnutrition in children. Sometimes the knowledge of malnutrition refers to deficiencies excesses or imbalances in a person’s intake of energy and or nutrients. The term malnutrition covers two broad groups of conditions. One is under nutrition, which includes stunting, low height for age and micro nutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies, a lack of important vitamins and minerals. The other is overweight, obesity and diet-related to non-communicable diseases such as heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer. There are different types of malnutrition, according to different scientific sources, including acute malnutrition, which shows the appearance of wasting or thinness. The main cause is acute inadequate nutrition, leading to rapid weight loss or failure to gain weight normally. Another type of malnutrition is chronic malnutrition, the appearance is stunting or shortness, the main cause of it is inadequate nutrition over long period of time leading to failure of linear growth. The last type of malnutrition is acute and chronic, the common appearance is under weight, and the common cause is lack of combination of measures, it could occur as a result of wasting, stunting or both. The Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC) is responsible for providing nutrition guidance. Its primary role is to improve nutrition, and its mandate is to develop strategic policies and establish nutrition programmes, advocacy programs and the ability to set up coordination issues and research on nutrition interventions inside the country. TFNC is well equipped in the fight against malnutrition in the Nutrition Baskets Projects (BNFB), a project which encourages the storage of vitamin and mineral foods in partnership with the Peruvian National Potato Center (IPC) who launched the project. Nutritional potatoes have also been cited as one of the crops that reduce malnutrition in children after being researched by the National Science and Technology Commission (NOSIC). The main responsibilities of these commissions are to conduct research and to ensure that the results of this research are accessible to the public. What they are doing is that research has been done to see how the commission can improve the seeds. It helps a lot because farmers bring twice what they normally produce. Research investments are made with the help of technology. The best way to help children avoid malnutrition is to give them two types of milk, heavy and light milk for 14 days. Malnourished children are at risk of getting other diseases. Doctors tend to advice parents of malnourished children that they should be given antibiotics and a vitamin supplement to restore vitamins which have been lost in their immune system. The child should eat five times a day and eat enough. According to World Health Organization (WHO), malnutrition in all its forms includes under nutrition, wasting, stunting, underweight, inadequate vitamins or minerals, overweight, obesity and resulting diet-related non communicable diseases. Over 1.9 billion adults are overweight or obese, while 462 million are underweight. Globally in 2020, 149 million children under 5 were estimated to be stunted and too short for age, 45 million were estimated to be wasted and too thin for height, and 38.9 were overweight or obese. Around 45 percent of deaths among children fewer than 5 years of age are linked to under nutrition. These mostly occur in low-and middle- income countries. At the same time in these same countries, rates of childhood overweight and obesity are rising. The developmental, economic, social, and medical impacts of the global burden of malnutrition are serious and lasting for individuals and their families, and for communities for countries. Experts insist on adding Vitamin A to cooking oil and other nutrients to access clean and safe nutrition. TBS also needs to verify the actual dietary standards being used, while TFDA and TFDC also need to work with food processors to enforce these rules. It is true that good nutrition is for everyone in the community, so everyone should participate in this development.