PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has instructed the Tanzania Building Agency, National Housing Corporation and Watumishi Housing Company to partner with the private sector in developing the idle plots. This, according to her, will enable the projects to be accomplished within a short period of time, compared to if it were to be funded by the government. She said, already the private sector from within and outside the country has shown an intention of partnering with the government in developing plots that need further investments. The President made the statement yesterday shortly after launching 644 houses built at Magomeni Kota, in Kinondoni district. The houses were constructed by Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) at a cost of over 52bn/-, whereas tenants have been granted free tenancy for a period of five years, however they will be charged for some operational costs. “I once said, the government will continue to provide a favourable environment for investors, right now, the private sector is ready to cooperate with TBA on construction projects,” she said. Thus, the president tasked the three institutions to negotiate with the private sector and sign productive contracts for win-win arrangements. She said there are some plots allocated by the government for construction of various projects, but remained undeveloped due to lack of sufficient funds. “Involving the private sector is the best choice that assures timely completion of the project,” she said. The president was also confident that financial institutions are capable of providing loans for execution of the projects. The Head of State also allowed tenants of the Magomeni Kota to buy the houses with an installment of between five and ten years. “They will pay only construction cost without coveting land cost since it will be too expensive and a burden to the buyers,” explained President Samia. She also called for proper maintenance of the new houses for the project to remain beneficial for the residences and country at large. The project also has other social service infrastructures such as the market, sports, recreational grounds as well as shopping centres. Available statistics show that Tanzania is experiencing a shortage of three million houses, whereas every year the demand increases at an average of 200,000 units. Earlier, the Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa, observed that the government disbursed around 52.2bn/- equivalent to 100 percent which enabled the construction of 656 houses at Magomeni Quarters. He, however, pointed out that the ministry is continuing to mobilize resources for the construction of buildings in other areas which were handed back to the Central Government from the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (POLARG) as indicated in the ruling CCM) election of 2020. In ensuring the buildings are properly maintained, he said the ministry has prepared a guideline which will oversee the supervision and proper handling of the buildings for long-lasting use. For his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA), Architect Daudi Kondoro, said the design, feasibility and construction of the project was implemented by TBA in collaboration with Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (TEMESA) by using its own experts. “The project Master plan comprises three plots with a total of 12.9 hectares which is equivalent to 32 acres for the execution of commercial, residential and office buildings as well as an open and parking space, where it’s expected there will be sports ground and recreational centres,” said the TBA boss.