As I am writing this, I am spotting a serious black eye, a swollen eye which is the result of trying to defend my right and my dignity. I know some of you have already gone as far as believing that the woman residing in my house, and who happens to be the mother of my small clan, is responsible for my poor state, but believe me, mama Boyi was nowhere near when it happened. There was a time I told you that it seems like trouble is always behind me wherever I go, but now I believe that it is because I always refuse to be harassed or degraded in any way, which is why I always find myself in a mess. But this time round I can assure you that I was in no mood for a confrontation or trouble with any one, so when I was provoked, I had to defend my honor. Last week I told you that I had gone to that place called Moshi, in Kilimanjaro region, and I did not go to collect bananas, but to show the whole world that I can challenge anyone when it comes to running a marathon. For those of you who read about my attempt, they know that it was next to a disaster, because I almost knocked on heaven’s door and straight to the pearly gates. But the black eye is not the result of the race, far from it, because after I recovered from my marathon debut, albeit in a poor state, me and my friend Jatello decided to remain in town to sample the place. I have to admit that we had a great time in Moshi, but the threatening phone calls from mama Boyi forced us to make the hard decision of going back to Dar es Salaam. In one of her phone calls, my wife who can never be accused of being gentle on the phone told me that if I was not back in my matrimonial home the next day, then I will go back to an empty house. “I have been told that while others were busy running, you were busy swallowing beer in the company of a short, plump woman called Grace…now let me tell you something, if you value your life, you should come home and tell me who is Grace!!” she screamed during our last conversation. I told her that someone had lied to her, because I participated in the marathon and that I had the medal to prove it, but she hanged up before I could say another word. Anyway, the next day we were in the bus heading back home, and to be honest, I was not looking forward to reaching home, because I knew that Nyakiusa woman would be waiting for me with her frying pan. The trip was uneventful, and due to the effects of the beers we had swallowed until late, I was dozing off peacefully, dreaming that I had won the London marathon in record time. You see, most of these buses have curtains on their windows, and I guess they are meant to protect passengers from the sun. When we left Moshi, the passengers on the right were forced to use the curtains to shield themselves from the blazing sun, but when we reached Same, the direction of the sun had turned on our side. I think the person who installed the curtains had a problem in measurements, because most of them did not cover the widow completely. The sun outside was really hot, and as I dozed off peacefully, I had drawn the curtain so that the sun could not hit me directly in my face. I was trying to pull back another dream where I had won the lottery and was about to take my family to Hawaii for the holidays, when suddenly I felt as if my face had been dropped in a boiling sufuria. I woke up feeling confused, and I realized that the passenger behind me had decided that it was a good idea to pull the curtain on her side and left my face exposed to the hot sun. I was ticked off as I stood up and pulled back the curtain, and glared at the passenger who was guilty of the atrocity, and I could see that she was a fat woman who resembled a retired sumo wrestler. I was settling in my seat when the curtain was pulled from behind once again, and I knew that this woman was trying to declare war on me. I did not look at her as I stood once again and violently pulled the curtain on my side, but it did not take long before the retired sumo wrestler pulled it back once again. I was sitting next to a pretty lady who had refused to give me her number when we were leaving Moshi, and I could see that she was enjoying the battle of wits. I knew my reputation hanged on the line as I stood up and glared at the woman, who stared back at me with a bored expression on her face. I told her to stop being childish and end the stupid game of pulling my curtain back, and she told me that the curtain in question was supposed to be for her window, and not mine. I did not respond to her as I pulled back the curtain and sat down, but a few seconds later the wrestler pulled it back violently. I knew there and then that it was no longer a declaration of war, it was already a fully-fledged battle for supremacy, and I was not ready to acknowledge defeat. I stood up and told the woman that if she continued to harass me, then I would be left with no other option but to deal with her by slapping her massive face. The guy who was seated next to her had remained quiet throughout the exchange, but when I threatened to discipline the woman, he stood up and tried to move closer to me. “Umesema nini wewe mzee!?” he asked, and before I could respond, the woman swung her oversized bag and hit me right in my left eye, and I felt as if the bus was tumbling on a mountain. It was Jatello, sitting on the opposite side, who saved me from the wrath of the woman and her furious husband, right before someone pointed out that the curtain for the woman’s window was right behind her.