THE Norwegian Church Aid- Tanzania (NCA-TZ) has pledged to continue promoting social cohesion, maintain peace, stability and trust—which are prerequisites in achieving economic development of the country. NCA-TZ Advocacy and Communication Officer Ms Nizar Suleiman Utanga said that in the absence of peace, the biggest victims are women and children, therefore, the youth and the elderly should realise that they are the main caretakers of the existing peace. “We need to work together to maintain and promote peace,” Ms Utanga said in Makoongwe, Mkoani District, South Pemba Region, during an organised youth tour to sensitize and promote peace, being implemented under the ‘interfaith peace building.’ Ms Utanga said the aim of the visit to the people living in the Makoongwe islet was to promote peace and provide opportunities for the community, to establish cooperative groups that would also focus on the awareness, adaptation and mitigation of climate change. “This partnership is to build peace and encourage women and youth to join a climate resilient agriculture that could alleviate poverty,” she said. She added that promoting peace and social cohesion involves young peace ambassadors, groups of small entrepreneurs, men, women, religious leaders, government officials, the media and financial institutions, and civil society organizations. Professor Issa Haji Zidy, a representative from the Interfaith called on CSOs and government institutions to promote “peace in times of peace and not to wait in times of unrest as the goal may not be achieved in the community. Peace touches the lives of everyone in the community, and is linked to the development of individuals and the country. The Chake Chake District Co-operative Officer Mwalimu Issa Ali urged the people of Makoongwe to form groups as they bring great productivity in changing the lives of the community economically, and that “It is important for young people to work together in cooperative groups to promote peace.” “Peace is everything and it is the vision of the country’s development, in the absence of peace nothing can progress,” he said as Sheikh Khamis Saidi Massoud, on behalf of people in Makoongwe, urged the people of the island to maintain peace in the country, while sparing no efforts in addressing abuse.