SIMBA remain upbeat to benefit from Dar es Salaam's weather, banking on it to stamp success in their return leg match against RS Berkane at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on March 13ththis year. Simba, the solo envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, host RS Berkane in the group D’s fourthround match mid this month after losing 2-0 to the Moroccan side in Berkane. It will be a decisive group D match of the competition as the results will help decide the group’s race towards the event’s quarters. However, before entertaining the Moroccans, Simba have two businesses to settle in theNBC Premier League as they face Biashara United tomorrow at Benjamin MkapaStadium and thereafter, on Monday, March 7th, they will host DodomaJiji at the same venue. In his briefing recently, Simba's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally clarified that the current weather in thecity will play a big role for them to get good results against RS Berkane. "In Morocco, the weather is chilly, a situation that gave our players a tough timeto adapt, thereby helping the hosts to claim a 2-0 win, but I can assure you that they will also experience troubles to cope with the city's warm weather while for us, it will be an advantage to overpower them," he said. In order to stand a good chance of qualifying into the CAF Confederation Cup quarters,  Simba need to win their upcoming home matchagainst RS Berkane before hunting for victories in their two final fixtures. On March 20th, the country’s envoys in the CAF Interclub games will travel to IvoryCoast to face ASEC Mimosas in a match that also looks difficult for the both sides. The Ivorians lost 3-1 to Simba in their group D opener at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar esSalaam. Adding, Simba's communications boss admitted that their mission to grab six points fromtheir played two away fixtures has failed to materialise as such; they will fully focus to succeed in their home games. "If youtake a good look at our group, most teams have done well at their home matches which means each side has invested a lot to shine at home. "We have already won our first home clash and we hope to do the same in theoncoming two home encounters of which I strongly believe that we can easily achieve if we work closely as a team," he said. As it stands in group D, RS Berkane lead the group D table with 6 points followed by Simba who have hauled 4 points while USGN, also with 4 points, are third  whereas ASEC Mimosas are glued at the bottom with 3 points. Practically,all teams in the group have equal chances to progress into the quarterfinals stageof the tournament, thus, the remaining three fixtures will be vital for each of them.