A FAVOURABLE business environment championed by the 6th phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan has attracted more players and introduction of new products in the insurance industry during the past one year. The Commissioner of Insurance of Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), Dr Baghayo Saqware, said during an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News’ that the regulator has so far registered over 1,000 players in the industry including insurance companies, brokers, assessors, agents and reinsurance companies. Dr Saqware mentioned some of the new products as insurance cover for small-scale entrepreneurs, farmers and low-income earners in addition to the introduction of Islamic insurance which is known as ‘takaful’. “The insurance sector has made significant progress due to a favourable business environment which has enticed investors to the insurance industry. The sector has attracted more players who have created jobs for Tanzanians,” he explained. The commissioner noted as well that during the past one year, TIRA registered one reinsurance company namely Grand Re and, thus, brought the total number of reinsurance companies to two. The other is Tanzania Reinsurance Company (TAN-RE). Reinsurance is the practice whereby insurers transfer portions of their risk portfolios to other parties by some form of agreement to reduce the likelihood of paying a large obligation resulting from an insurance claim. Dr Saqware attributed the growth of the industry to, among others, execution of strategic development projects including construction of the central railway line to Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), among others. “Through these projects insurance companies have issued insurance covers for employees, vehicles and equipment which are used in the construction work,” he stated. Available statistics show that TIRA has so far registered 32 insurance companies, 100 brokers in addition to 900 agents, actuarial firms and insurance assessors. The Commissioner urged Tanzanians to make use of insurance products which are available in the market, noting that only 14 per cent of the population use insurance cover out of whom 7 per cent are covered through the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). TIRA was established under the Insurance Act Number 10 of 2009 and it is charged with the responsibility of coordinating policy and other matters relating to insurance in Tanzania. The other functions of the regulator include registration and issuance of operating licenses for insurance companies and agents, assessors, loss surveyors, brokers in addition to reinsurance companies. TIRA is also tasked with inspection of all insurance players, handling of insurance complaints from the public and conducting public awareness on insurance.