SPEAKER of the National Assembly, Dr Tulia Ackson has called upon the private sector in the country to increase the number of women in senior leadership positions and provide them with opportunities to participate in decision making in order to increase efficiency and productivity. Dr Ackson made the call on Wednesday at the opening of the 4th annual leadership conference and female future cohort 7 graduation organized by the Association of Tanzania Employers  (ATE) held in Dar es Salaam. The International Labor Organization (ILO) 2019 Annual Report titled 'Women in Business and Management' indicated that business companies with good gender ratio by providing equal opportunities to both women and men at the top positions are performing well. Basing on the report, Dr Ackson said about three-quarters of the companies reported a profit increase of between 5 and 20 per cent and managed to increase creativity and transparency as well as being able to attract and develop talented, creative and transparent employees in carrying out their responsibilities. However, the report said that the benefits of a positive gender balance begin to emerge when women hold up to 30 per cent of the senior leadership positions. The government recognizes the importance of women's participation in decision-making on environmental issues and other sectors as recently President Samia Suluhu Hassan  appointed Prof Esnati Chaggu as the National Environment Management Council (NEMC)  Board  Chairperson and Dr Stergomena Tax as Minister for Defense and National Service. Dr Ackson also commended ATE and the Eastern and Southern African Management Institute College (ESAMI) for winding up the Female Future Cohort 7 programme with great success as well as adding the competence in leadership skills among women. The Speaker said that various studies show that climate change increases poverty and undermines efforts to bring about gender equality, since the main victims of the changes are women and children. "It is clear that women and men are generally affected by these changes but there are differences in the way these changes affect women and men," she noted. According to the United Nations (UN) 80 per cent of the people who are forced to relocate due to climate change are women, and that is because of the fact that their responsibilities as family caregivers put them at greater risk during floods and droughts. T The Paris Agreement in 2015 placed a special emphasis on empowering and recognizing women and see that most are affected by climate change, Dr  Ackson said. For his part, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (Labor, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Prof Joyce Ndalichako  pledged that  her docket y will continue  to cooperate with ATE as well as other stakeholder to make sure it  provides education to women for the welfare of the  country ATE Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Ms Suzanne Ndomba said this year they  have 41 women  who graduated in Female Future Programme Cohort 7 and are  from 23 companies , out of which seven paid  for the  programme  on their own.