PRIME Minister Mr Kassim Majaliwa has announced that effective coffee buying season is coming in May, 2022 and private companies should be welcomed to compete in purchasing session through auctions atAgricultural Marketing Cooperative Society (AMCOS) level. Mr Majaliwa invited private companies to buy coffee directly from AMCOS, a move aimed at presenting the crop farmers with higher price. This latest move will do away with a system where the Cooperative Unions used to collectthe coffee,and subject farmers to take meager prices in bargain. He issued the directives while addressing a coffee stakeholders’ meeting on Tuesday at Kayanga Township, in Karagwe District. However, he was apparently irked by nuisance levies imposed by the Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU 1990 Ltd), Karagwe District Cooperative Union (KDCU) and Ngara Farmers’ Cooperative Society (Ngara AMCOS). He cited some of the nuisance levies as burial levy, where a kilogramme of coffee was deducted 94 cents, uniforms (7/-), leave (50 cents), labourers (23/-), electricity (39/-) and refreshment levy (29 cents) from the sales on side of the farmers. He explained that a taskforce which was formed by the government noted that the cooperatives were siphoning the farmers by charging nuisance levies, which did not benefit the locals, instead the money ended up in the pockets of few dishonest leaders. Hence, Mr Majaliwadirected the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Major Gen Charles Mbuge to ensure that   47 nuisance taxes were abolished forthwith. In the course, a kilogramme of coffee was beingtaxed about 830/- and following the directive, the same quantity will now be deducted 260/-only. Mr Majaliwa also reiterated the government resolves to streamline research on strategic crops including coffee, in efforts to revolutionalise the agricultural sector. “Tanzania has a large and fertile land for agricultural investment, as well as a favourable business climate,” he said, adding that the government was committed to strengtheningagricultureby engaging the private sector through Public Private Partnership (PPP). Elaborating, he said Tanzania was implementing a five-year strategic plan aimed at increasing coffee production from 78,000 metric tonnes annually to 300,000 metric tonnes by 2025. The plan goes simultaneously with producing 20 million improved coffee seedlings every year. “Apart from ensuring the availability of improved coffee seedlings, efforts are also being taken to modernise extension services by motivating Extension Officers and equipping them with soil testing kits,” he said. He noted that another big challenge facing farmers in the country was lack of capital investment, adding that the government recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with several financial institutions to address the problem. He lauded CRDB Bank Plc for taking a grand initiative by slashing lending rates to farmers and salaried workers, a move that would greatly stimulate the country’s economic development. “I commend some of the financial institutions that have taken action to address the problem including the CRDB Bank Plc, which recently pushed down the lending rates to farmers from the 20 per cent to 9 per cent. This is a commendable step,” he said.