PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has successfully maintained Tanzania’s investment strides as she clocks a year since assuming the highest office on March 19, 2021. She has carried the baton from her predecessor, the late President John Magufuli, with a breathtaking pace as she keeps pursuing Tanzania’s economic goals. One of her first endeavors after assuming the reins of power, was accelerating the completion of the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP) deal with neighbouring Uganda and main investors. On April 11, last year, Tanzania and Uganda signed three key agreements to kick off the construction of the East African Crude Oil Pipeline. President Samia and his host Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni witnessed the signing of the agreements at State House Entebbe, 40 km south of the Ugandan capital Kampala. The two countries signed the Host Government Agreement, Shareholder Agreement (for the pipeline company) and Tariff agreements. Partners in the pipeline agreement Total and China National Offshore Oil Corporation also witnessed the signing of the agreements. President Hassan after witnessing the signing said the project would not only benefit Uganda and Tanzania alone, but the entire region. “The project will bring revenues to the regional countries and more than 10,000 jobs will be created,” she said. The president also said the EACOP will unlock the regional potential and attract more investors to east Africa. “Our region is well-endowed with abundant resources. In order to fully and effectively exploit these resources, we need infrastructure,” she said. The signing of the triple agreements was followed with he signing of the Final Investment Decision (FID) in early February, this year. The signing of the FID was graced by the Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and Tanzanian Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango, who represented President Samia at the event at Kololo ceremonial grounds in Kampala, Uganda. The inking of the document set the ground running for execution of the 1,445 kilometres long crude oil pipeline to run from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga port in Tanzania. It was a welcome development for the two neighbouring nations, with members of the private sector and a section of economists in Tanzania lauding the move by main investors in the project; France’s TotalEnergies and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC). The EACOP will be constructed and operated through a pipeline company with shareholding from the Uganda National Oil Company (UNOC), the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), and the two oil companies, TotalEnergies and CNOOC. Commenting on the development during separate telephone interviews with the ‘Daily News’, the private sector and economists said the announcement of the FID paves the way for the ground-work of the 1,445 kilometres pipeline to kick-off. The former Executive Director of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Mr Francis Nanai hailed President Samia’s resolve to see the project keep afloat. He said the stage has now been set for collaborative efforts between all parties involved in the mega projects including governments and private sector. “There is now need for collaborative efforts between the investors, the governments of Tanzania and Uganda, private sector and other institutions since the project needs sustainability to bear the desired benefits,” Mr Nanai commented. The former head of the country’s apex body for private sector was equally impressed that TPSF and government institutions have undertaken various measures aimed at raising awareness and sensitizing local players of available opportunities to be accrued from the project. “Since the document has been sealed it is now the time for the work on the ground to start and contracts to be awarded,” he stated. He pointed further that through local content regulations, a total of 12 projects have so far been ring-fenced for Tanzanians to participate. Speaking in a separate interview, an economist-cuminvestment banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, commented; “The signing of the starting of the construction of the oil pipeline from Uganda to Tanzania in my opinion is a very important step. Adding; “This is an important step for Tanzania to embark on a major international project. This follows a previous project between Tanzania and Zambia (notably the Tanzania-Zambia crude oil pipeline, which was constructed in the 1970’s). Economically, in addition to several job opportunities to be created during construction, Tanzania will continue through its lifespan to earn revenue related to the transportation of oil”, he remarked. Dr Shayo was quick to add that; “There is one important thing to remember when you are an equity share partner on such a project. As an equity partner should there be any additional requirement related to the business, Tanzania should be prepared to be on spot-on. “Here the government needs to work at the tune of the private sector to respond to such requests such as additional capital. Tanzania’s interest in this crude oil pipeline will need to adopt the private sector mindset,” he pointed out. For his part, a senior lecturer and economist at the Mzumbe University Dar es Salaam, Prof Honest Ngowi, was equally positive of opportunities to be accrued since a lot of preparations have been undertaken. “The project has been long awaited but the good news is that there has been considerable sensitization of local content arrangement for the private sector. With such preparations and awareness which have been undertaken now let us see how they can be delivered on the ground,” he commented. TotalEnergies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Patrick Pouyanne, said during the signing of FID that the two oil companies have committed to invest 10 billion US dollars for the Tilenga and Kingfisher oil wells in Uganda in addition to construction of the 1,443 kilometres long pipeline. Estimated Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) are 3.5 US billion dollars with more than 18,000 jobs set to be created over the next 25 years. Uganda has so far discovered over 6.5 billion barrels of oil and expects to export it from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga port in Tanzania to international markets. TotalEnergies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Patrick Pouyanne, said the two oil companies have committed to invest 10 billion US dollars. Having discovered huge reserves of natural gas, Tanzania is currently exploring oil in the central regions, while the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is said to have made some discoveries. Speaking on behalf of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Dr Mpango said the announcement of the FID is a result of considerable efforts and relentless negotiations between Uganda and Tanzania, as well as the companies involved in the project. For his part, President Museveni hailed TotalEnergies and CNOOC for finally making the announcement of implementing the project. The Ugandan leader also allayed fears that the produced oil may not make it to the international markets, pointing to the fact that his government has conducted studies which showed that the product is marketable and has no chances of lacking market. Apart from producing fuel, the extracted petroleum can also be used for other uses such as manufacturing of polyester, synthetic rubber among others. Some residents in Kagera Region hailed the signing of the FID, expressing hopes that the project will spur development in their areas. Mr Dauda Byombalirwa (57) from Missenyi District’s Minziro village said many people have been waiting for a long time adding that the implementation of the project will speed development. “This is a golden opportunity. We have a duty to safeguard the pipeline night and day. Let’s all play our roles satisfactorily,” he recommended. Ms Aurelia Domician (25), a teacher at Kaigara secondary school, in Muleba District, on her part, said the project was a blessing not only for salaried workers but also the millions of farmers in Tanzania. “Kagera residents and all Tanzanians in eight regions where the pipeline will pass must ensure that it is safeguarded, while at same time taking advantage of the project,” she said. Out of the 1,445 kilometres, Tanzania takes the lion’s share, with about 1, 147 kilometres, almost 80 per cent. The oil pipeline will pass through eight regions, 24 districts and 134 wards. The respective regions include Kagera, Geita, Shinyanga, Tabora, Singida, Dodoma, Manyara and Tanga. In Kagera Region the pipeline will pass through 20 Wards, 34 villages and 117 hamlets. About 10,000-15,000 Tanzanians will get employment, out of which 2,017 will be Kagera residents.