FOR some years now, Tanzania Ports Authority has been making efforts to services within the country. Now those efforts are crossing the country’s borders. Recently, TPA sent a powerful delegation in Zambia in strategic efforts to promote services offered in all their ports in the country. Apart from the fact that TPA offers its services to several land locked countries, the delegation which comprised of top port officials had the aim of taking the Zambian market. The delegation was joined by Tanzanian High Commissioner to Zambia, Amb. Hassan Simba Yahaya who represented the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works and Transport, at a special conference which was officially opened by the Zambia Minister for Transport and Logistics, Frank Tayali. The conference had brought together a number of transport stakeholders who transport cargo from Zambia to other parts of the globe. During the conference, Amb Yahaya assured participants that under the government of President Samia, TPA has made major strides in improving services offered at all their ports including major investment in purchase of modern equipment and machinery which has increased the quality of service. Amb Yahaya said that improvements in services at all major ports in the country is meant to benefit Tanzania and land locked countries which depend on the country’s ports, including Zambia. Zambia is one of the transit markets served by the Port of Dar es Salaam through the Dar es Salaam corridor which is a multi-model corridor with road and a TAZARA railway. The corridor stretches out from the Port of Dar es Salaam to Tunduma/ Nakonde Border. TPA Marketing Manager, Ms Lydia Mallya says that the port of Dar es Salaam is the main cargo gateway not only to Tanzanian hinterland and great lakes region, but also for land linked neighbours in east and central Africa such as Burundi, the DR Congo , Malawi, Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia. She told delegates at the conference that with the capacity of handling 600,000 vehicles annually, the new 320-meter long berth at the Dar es Salaam port recently broke both its own capacity handled record and that of all other Eastern and Southern African ports (excluding South Africa) by welcoming cargo ship MOL Tranquil Ace to discharge 3,743 vehicles through the new roll-on-roll-off berth. “Given the rise in maritime trade and the ever increasing market demands, TPA is set to cope with this fast growing trend through creation of capacity ahead of demand through projects geared towards improving capacity and efficiency at the port,” she says. She added that one of the projects, the Dar es Salaam Marine Gateway Project (DMGP) is valued at 336.4bn/- and represents the first large –scale modernisation of the port in its history. She further says that the project is well under way, with initial works now virtually complete under the supervision and management of the Tanzania Port Authority, which upon completion the Dar port will have a capacity of handling 28 million tons per annum. She says that Tanzanian ports will continue to play an important role in linking the regional expansive hinterland to the international markets, with initiatives to improve cargo handling at the Dar Port and other TPA ports which will fast track Tanzania’s quest for industrialization and support the regional quest to attain fast social economic development. The economy of Zambia is much reliant on copper production where copper is largely exported to countries like Switzerland, China, Singapore and Democratic Republic of Congo where at the same time imports mostly sulphur, oil and other goods from South Africa, China, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. The market share analysis for Dar port vs competing ports for 12 month starting from July, 2020 to June 2021 indicates that during the financial year 2020/2021, Dar port was able to attain 20.03 percent market share for the Zambia seaborne traffic against that of the competing ports with 79.97 percent. Ms Mallya says that the advantage that the Dar port has against the competing ports is a direct railway link from the Port of Dar es salaam to the copper belt in Zambia. TAZARA network is known as the southern corridor railway line network which has a track gauge of 1, 067mm (3 ft 6 in) and a total coverage of 1,860 km from Dar es Salaam, on the coast of the Indian Ocean to Kapiri Mposhi, near the Copper belt. “TAZARA also serve as a key conduit for all kinds of bulk imports from all over the world including fuels, hardware, coke/coal, timber/wood, fertilizers and other critical inputs into the mines and agricultural farmlands of Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania and the DRC, as well as Rwanda and Burundi through the Port of Mpulungu on Lake Tanganyika,” she says. The network has the capacity to handle more than 1.6 million tons per annum She further says that copper, which Zambia’s main export, accounts for 70 percent of the African’s production and more than 60 percent of the country’s total exports. Zambia main seaborne export partners in copper is Switzerland which account for more than 40 percent of the total copper exported, followed by China for 20 percent and Singapore 14 percent. During the year 2019/2020 copper exported was about 884,465.9 metric tons.