The ride-hailing company, Bolt Tanzania has said it is focusing on providing customers with sustainable and affordable mobility options that are significant in managing their transport needs. Country Sales Manager for Bolt Business, Milu Kipimo said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that Bolt Business in Tanzania offers its services to SMEs, large enterprises and other corporations in Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Dodoma and Arusha, at affordable rates. “Bolt Business is aimed at helping companies to better manage their business trips. Through the service, businesses get control over their transport and travel needs through the use of the centralized platform,” he said. He added, “We are committed to offering our clients ease of mobility through the provision of affordable and reliable transport options,” Bolt Business offers a service that allows businesses to take control of their travel needs through a centralized easy-to-use online platform. He said through this platform, corporate offices and businesses can monitor and manage their teams' commute for business-related trips. Since its launch in May last year, Bolt Business has grown its footprint and currently records tens of thousands of rides per month from various partners. Bolt Business allows businesses to cut down on their travel expenses and save up a significant amount on their overall costs. He said through Bolt Business, companies create an account where their teams can book rides, as well as keep track of the routes and expenses of the company’s business travels and trips. To enjoy this, employees can connect their Bolt accounts to the company’s Bolt Business account and switch their payment method to the corporate account. He said also that Bolt service allows for monitoring of corporate spending, allows for the option of centrally booking rides and synchronized payment methods, all whilst offering transparency through monthly reports and access to dedicated Bolt personnel to manage all queries and concerns.