THE government has formed a special team of experts to review the 2014 Education and Training Policy that goes hand in hand with overhauling the education curriculum, as massive reforms in education sector are on horizon. Opening the faith based and private schools’owners’ education stakeholders meeting, the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolf Mkenda assured that the reviews of policy and curriculum will not compromise thequality of education. “I have formed a team to review our 2014 Education and Training Policy, which will match with the curriculum review because the two must speak the same language, failure of which their practicability will be difficult” said Prof Mkenda. He added: “Major reforms in the education sector are on the way… the government is determined to bring a revolution in the education sector, which will henceforth boost the country’s economy. However, he said the reforms are meant to have in place an education system that will address the current needs of both education and skills oriented. “The education and training structure in use in the country must provide enough opportunities for the people to educate themselves. Likewise, this structure must provide quality education and training acceptable and recognised nationally, regionally and internationally,” he said. Prof Mkenda said there is need to see if the 2014 Education and Training Policy is still valid, or needs improvement,adjustment or overhaul as per the country’s priorities, sayingit is equally imperative for the policy to matchwith the curriculum. Prof Mkenda gave an example where the policy states that basic education should be ten years, which is not the case at present and it gives room for a student to choose either higher education or skills and vocational oriented. In May this year, he said the Ministry will stage a national education symposium, which among other things will discuss the first draft of the curriculum, whereas the 7-4-2 education system will also be discussed. This Education and Training Policy of 2014 is the outcome of the review and final repeal of the Education and Training Policy (1995).