PHYSICALLY gone is the man who will forever be remembered for his charismatic leadership, wise economic advice and cementing bilateral relations in the regional blocs. The late President John Magufuli, who ascended to power in 2015, has been Tanzania’s shortest serving Head of State, but one who has had a huge impact in attaining development for the country and its people within the period. Since assuming office, the late President Magufuli asserted a strong stance against public spending and discouraged unnecessary foreign trips in the government circles. He stopped ‘business as usual’ attitude in some Tanzania ambassadors abroad, and become tough that they had to ensure they serve the country by mostly wooing investors as well as tourists into the country, something that has since paid handsomely in the nation. For instance in September 2018, he warned the country’s ambassadors and diplomats to account for their performance or risk being returned home, saying he would not hesitate to dismiss non-performing envoys representing Tanzania in various countries at the expense of taxpayers money. Again, domestically the late President further rooted for industrialization drive, market access regulation and other global developments so that poverty becomes history in the country. To cement relations within the East Africa Community, five months after assuming office in April 2016, he made a trip to Rwanda, then Uganda (thrice), and thereafter to Kenya, South Africa, Ethiopia, Namibia and Zimbabwe in different occasions. He had been all along been eager to strengthen the integration process of the EAC members in the bloc to the extent of discussing food security situation, and urging that surplus grains in Tanzania or Uganda be sold to others in need. In spite of the visits, the late JPM was hailed as a vibrant regional leader within the East African Community (EAC) bloc and as Southern African Development Community (SADC) Heads of State Chairman in one of its summits. Leading the SADC, he said apart from many achievements of the bloc, member states still had a long way to go in realising the dreams of the region’s founding fathers. In 2020, the late President said that majority of the 350 million people of the Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Eswatini, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe were still grappling with the challenges of poverty, unemployment and hunger, despite being endowed with abundant natural resources like fertile land, minerals, forests and water. In its condolence message following the death of President Magufuli, SADC Chairperson and Mozambique President, Mr Felipe Nyusi last year said the 16 members in the bloc and Africa as a whole lost a great, committed and inspirational leader admired across the continent and world for major reforms and economic empowerment of his people. “H.E. President Dr Magufuli will always be remembered for his development oriented leadership and commitment to SADC deeper political and socio-economic regional integration. Upon assuming the SADC Chairpersonship in August 2019, H.E. President Dr Magufuli reiterated that Tanzania is fully committed to SADC’s vision; goals, principles and ideals, and indeed, we always consider SADC as an integral part of our future. “True to his commitment to the SADC ideals, he steered the region to record a number of milestones, such as finalisation of the development of the SADC Vision 2050 and Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) 2020-2030, and two blueprints that provide a strategic direction of the SADC Region in the years ahead,” said President Nyusi. The later Dr Magufuli was remembered as a leader, who always sought practical solutions to challenges in order to increase industrial capacity and intra-regional trade in the SADC region as reflected in the theme of the 39th SADC Summit of Heads of State and Government held in Dar es Salaam. Equally, he was urging SADC Member States to harmonise policies, laws, regulations and improve the quality of standards of goods and services, so as to increase the volume and value of intra and extra regional trade. It was unfortunate that the untimely passing away of President Magufuli came barely a week before SADC commemorated the Southern African Liberation Day on 23rd March, 2021- a day dedicated to honour men and women, who sacrificed in their countries’ liberation struggles.