PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan's one year in office has focused on re-forging and redefining existing diplomatic, bilateral and multilateral ties by unlocking the country's available trade and investment opportunities with the rest of the world. As the Head of State, President Samia is showing the way through the promotion and building of economic diplomacy with other nations, a lot has been achieved within her one year work in office. Within only one year in office, the President has clearly demonstrated that Tanzania is really ready to take off by successfully branding the country as one of the most attractive investment destinations in the world. Immediately after being sworn-in as the first female President of Tanzania, she made her goals clear and aspirations for the country, one of them being prioritizing diplomacy, bilateral and multilateral ties through economic diplomacy. In her maiden speech to the National Assembly on April 22, last year President Samia pledged to review the country's foreign policy with the purpose of strengthening diplomatic ties and cooperating with other nations to achieve both social and economic development. In the new world order of science, advanced technologies and innovations, reforms are crucial as the new foreign policy will also act as an extension of both domestic and international policies to cater for the existing demands. Ever since she assumed the reins on March 19 last year, the President has hardly had time to rest, instead regularly on the road, relentlessly pursuing her development targets, whether social, cultural, political or economic goals. In realizing the goals, the Head of State has carried out several working trips within the East African Region, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region and overseas, with the quest to market the country at a regional and international level and attract investments to the country. Among such trips include a working visit to Uganda in April last tear, where she met with her Ugandan counterpart, President Yoweri Museveni, and other stakeholders in the East African Crude Oil Pipeline. In May last year she made a two-day state visit to Kenya where she and her Kenyan counterpart, President Uhuru Kenyatta, discussed improving trade relations between the two countries. She also addressed the bicameral Parliament. The trip was attributed to increasing trade between the two nations. Furthermore, in June President Samia carried out a trip to Mozambique's capital Maputo for a Summit of Heads of State and Government of SADC, where they discussed issues of regional integration, cooperation and development. On the other hand, in July the President jetted to Burundi as part of efforts to increase business co-operation between the two nations and in the following month of August, she went to Rwanda for a two-day State visit which centred on boosting the two countries' economies among other issues. The trip to Burundi witnessed several achievements, including the laying of the foundation stone for the construction of a 400bn/- Nitracom fertilizer factory being built at Nala area in the capital city Dodoma and that is owned by a Burundian. The factory is expected to provide employment opportunities to Tanzanians, with 3,000 direct jobs and 7,000 indirect jobs. The two countries agreed to strengthen cooperation in trade and investment, while exploring many opportunities. In August, she went to Malawi's capital Lilongwe where she took part in the 41st SADC Heads of State Summit. Later in the same month, she went to Zambia to attend the swearing-in ceremony of President Hakainde Hichilema. In September, President Samia attended the 76th UN General Assembly (UNGA) meeting in New York, US. At the UNGA, President Samia's maiden speech centring on a stronger multilateralism conquered many. "It is not by sheer coincidence that I chose to attend the United Nations General Assembly as my first trip outside Africa since I took office. I did so out of my deep sense of conviction and faith in multilateralism in solving the multitude of challenges that our world faces today," said President Samia at UNGA. At the end of October, the President went to Glasgow, Scotland to attend and address the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26). In her address at the summit, she called upon developed countries to fulfill climate finance goals of donating $100bn by 2025 to facilitate the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Immediately after returning from her trip to Scotland, she travelled to Egypt and met her counterpart President Abdel Fattah El Sisi centering on discussions in pursuit of improved economic ties and witnessed the signing of one contract and seven Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) between the two countries. During her visit, President Samia and her host agreed on a number of issues with the main aim of stimulating bilateral ties and increasing trade volume between the two countries. President Samia also seized the occasion to invite Egyptian investors to explore opportunities in ten sectors, such as livestock, agriculture, real estate, industry, energy, tourism and hospitality. Her recent working trips to France, Belgium and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have recorded huge gains to the country's several key sectors that would in turn stimulate a boost in the revenue and economy. An Economist and Researcher at Massa Institute of Social Sciences Research, Dr Muhajir Kachwamba, said in her visits, the President welcomed investors from France and Belgium, assuring them of a reliable and conducive environment for doing business, adding that she has branded well the country. She urged them to come to Tanzania to explore world-class opportunities in various areas including livestock, agriculture, energy, mining and other sectors. "The President has branded the country well in her visits by managing to convince the international and business community that Tanzania is a potential destination for investment. The French mission expected to jet in the country in the coming weeks is a clear manifestation of the efforts," said Dr Kachwamba. Similarly, grants amounting to 425 million Euros, estimated at 1.15tri/- and concessional loans secured will enable capital injection into the economy, thereby benefiting the whole country. He, however, noted that the over 250 million Euros in concessional loan and grant for the financing of agriculture and the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project phase 5 in Dar es Salaam will help ease transport and service delivery in the country. Equally, the over 150 billion Euros which have been allocated for African countries during the European Union and African Union (AU-EU) Summit is going to strengthen transport services within the country. An economist-cum-banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, also observed that should Tanzania access the funds; it will be in a better position to channel the funds in the timely completion of projects. "Securing the 425 million Euros equivalent to 1.15tri/- grant is an important policy instrument for EU among its innumerable schedules with Tanzania, and indeed with President Samia opening up the country once again has been and will be strategically positioned to receive more development funds, not only from European Commission but also from private sector from French investors that currently are pleased with on-going reform taking place to bring Tanzania into world class business table," noted Dr Shayo. He added that "France with 40 existing projects worth 73.4 million US dollars that has roughly generated more than 1,885 jobs would double if proposed reforms aimed at improving the business environment in the country will be honoured. "With such projects and more to come, Tanzania will benefit from other multiplier effects that I believe will cover a wide array of fields, such as agriculture, education, transportation, energy, communications, and health including assistance to support Covid-19 treatment manufacturing factory that could also be beneficial to our neighbouring countries." Expounding further, he said the 10-day's official tour meant a lot to Tanzania, as concessional loans, combined with grants were secured and aim at not only benefiting Tanzania as a country, but also through multiplier effects many Tanzanians will indirectly benefit. While in the UAE, President Samia graced Tanzania Day at the Dubai Expo 2020 in Dubai and invited over 190 countries which took part at the international event to visit Tanzania's pavilion in order to explore various investment opportunities available in the East African state. "Tanzania is a peaceful and stable county which is a crucial asset for one top investment, we have opened doors for everyone to visit and explore the available opportunities," she noted. A clear testimony of the trips involves the 36 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) inked in the UAE including that of the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) and Muhammad Jahangir Freight Services LLC (MJFSL) aiming to generate investments worth $7.49bn (about 17.8tri/-) and create 204,575 jobs over the next four years. Among key sectors which have reached a compromise of investments are energy, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure, transportation, textiles, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), construction and other sectors in the country. The President's foreign visits signaled efforts to further strengthen the country's foreign policy by embracing the world for growth, reveal analysts. They said as President Samia is taking crucial efforts to enhance Tanzania's multilateral ties, her subordinates should work hard to ensure the initiative pays off. A lecturer at the Centre for Foreign Relations (CFR), Mr Innocent Shoo said President Samia's efforts will pave the way for economic growth of Tanzania and the whole continent. "She is effectively implementing Tanzania's foreign policy that focuses on economic diplomacy. This is part of efforts to bolster and leverage the agenda and spirit of Africa's continental free trade area which will pave the way for Africa’s economic growth and development," he said. According to him, the Head of State is determined to promote further the national agenda at the regional and global level. For her part, a lecturer at Tumaini University Dar es Salaam College (Tudarco), Ms Rachel Yusuph Mariam said the foreign trips by President Samia are crucial for the economic growth of the country. According to her, the president is proving to the world that Tanzania can play a part in international trade, through the deliberate efforts to improve business and investment climate in the country. "Above all, Tanzania is going to the next level as we have already seen an increase in the number of foreign investors who are developing interest to invest in the country," she explained. The pundit went on to explain that President Samia's move has come at the right time since Tanzania is implementing an economic diplomacy policy that needs the country's effective involvement in international trade. "Our president is passionate about seeing the economic well-being of the country and all the individuals that is why she is doing her best to make things happen" Ms Mariam noted further. Their observations were in line with comments made by the Assistant Lecturer at Mzumbe University, Mr Jerum Kilumile on President Samia's on-going efforts to market multiple opportunities available in Tanzania. "Having resources and vast opportunities is one thing, but the most crucial effort is to make the opportunities known to the potential investors, and this is exactly what President Samia is doing," he said. He was of the view that successful implementation of the economic diplomacy policy will increase the number of Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). Available statistics issued recently by World Investment Report 2021 by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) shows that in 2020, the country's FDI reached 1 billion US dollars, up from 991 million US dollars in 2019.