EXPECTED inflows of funds through capital, concessional loans and grants which were put in agreements during President Samia Suluhu Hassan recent visit to Europe and United Arab Emirates (UAE) are expected to translate significant multiplier effects in Tanzania’s economy. Finance and Planning Minister, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba yesterday mentioned some of the benefits as increased investments, widening of the tax base and creation of job opportunities for Tanzanians. “There have been some perceptions that the funds will be mostly for budgetary allocation but the truth is they will touch many areas including the private sector,” the minister explained during a virtual meeting on the successes of the visit by the president abroad. Dr Nchemba further explained that all ministers whose sectors are responsible for the envisaged projects are scheduled to meet tomorrow, where they will prepare for arrivals of investors who expressed interests in Tanzania. The minister said the trips by the Head of State have unlocked Tanzania’s in foreign economic diplomacy, driving the country to new heights in cooperation with other countries in the world. “There were a series of high-level meetings between the Tanzanian delegation on one hand and foreign governments and organizations on the other which deal in issuing grants, soft loans and investments. “There were also meetings with companies and business communities and the response was positive. We now expected to start receiving some dignitaries from those governments, organizations and companies,” he revealed.. During the visit in France between February 10-14, President met and held talks with French Macron, attended the ‘One Ocean Summit’ and met members of the French Business Confederation (MEDEF). The two countries also signed a number of projects including 178 million Euros for phase five of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Dar es Salaam and a concessional loan amounting to 80 million Euros for the Tanzania Agricultural Bank (TADB). According to Dr Nchemba, there were also 23 agreements which were signed between private enterprises from the two countries, stating that all agreements signed in France will create a total of 200,000 jobs over the next four years. In UAE, a total of 36 MoU’s worth 7.49 billion US dollars (about 17.8trl) were signed during the Tanzania Business and Investment Forum last Sunday during an event which was graced by President Samia at the Dubai Expo 2020. Among key sectors which will benefit from investment agreements are energy, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure, transportation, textiles, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), construction and other sectors in the country. Twelve MoUs were signed between the Tanzanian government and investors, while 23 MoUs were signed between Tanzanian companies and various investors seeking joint ventures or collaboration in various sectors of the economy. While in Dubai, President Samia also met with the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) Dr Akinwumi Adesina and Managing Director and Executive Vice-President of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Mr Makhtar Diop. The lists also include the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr Moussa Mahamat and the World Bank Managing Director for Development Policy and Partnerships, Ms Mari Pangestu. Other leaders include former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom who is the Executive Director of Tony Blair Institute for Global Change, Mr Tony Blair, and Director General of Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), Ms Patricia Danzi. 