REGISTRAR of Cooperative Societies, Dr Benson Ndiege, has phased out of office leaders of Biashara Savings and Credit Cooperative Society (Biashara SACCOS Ltd) Board of Trustees in Shinyanga for misconduct. A statement issued here yesterday by Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) Communications Unit, the Registrar arrived at the decision following violation of the Cooperatives Act No. 6 of 2013 and Regulations of 2015. The statement named those who have been phased out of office as Board Chairman, Mr Deogratius Sulla, Vice Chairman, Mr Christopher Ringo and members who are Mr Raymond Kirenga, Mr Godfrey Lema, Mr Cuthbert Lema, Mr Anthony Lello, Adonikam Kweka and Mr Simon Massawe. The board members and their leaders were among others required to serve for three years and be elected for another term of three years and not otherwise. “The members of the Biashara SACCOS Ltd Board were elected by the members and were required to serve until October 2020,” the statement said in part. It noted that the Registrar’s office had repeatedly instructed the officials to prepare for election of other members with the aim of strengthening good governance in the SACCOs and complying with the requirements of the law, but they failed to do so. The delay to elect new board members prompted the Registrar to phase the leaders out because they have served beyond the required time. The statement added that at the end of last week, the Assistant Registrar of Cooperative Societies presided over a special general assembly and learnt that there were massive violations of the law, rules and regulations governing the board. “The Registrar has been saddened by the violation of law requirements by the former leaders of the SACCOS. For this reason, the Office of the Registrar has launched a special investigation to ascertain the operations of the SACCOS, “the statement expressed. Following the decisions, the office in collaboration with the members is in the process to form an interim leadership to oversee the operations of the SACCOS while they prepare for the general meeting. “The Office of the Registrar would like to assure the members of Biashara SACCOS Ltd that their funds will be properly managed,” the statement added. The Registrar further reminded leaders and executives of all cooperatives in the country to ensure that they comply with the requirements of the Cooperatives Act No. 6 of 2013, Microfinance Services Act No. 10 of 2018, other country laws. Also, the Registrar urged them to obey various rules, guidelines, and directives of the Registrar’s Office, terms, policies, and various guidelines in the management of cooperative activities in the country. The statement insisted that for those found to be violating the requirements of the Act, legal action will be taken against them