PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi on Wednesday commended Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in the country for their enormous support in execution of various programs, urging them to be more creative in soliciting for funds. "I appreciate your support in education, health, democracy, human rights, and promoting peace. I call on development partners to continue supporting the CSOs and NGOs," Dr Mwinyi said in his speech at the First ever Zanzibar Annual NGOs Forum (ZANGOF). He said that the CSOs and NGOs remain important in engaging and getting involved in programs that aim at moving Zanzibar forward. “Since the inauguration of the House of Representatives in 2020, I have been emphasizing on   promoting good relationships between the government and NGOs, because the role of the private sector remains important in the development of the isles," Dr Mwnyi said, adding that engaging NGOs and CSOs in decision making also leads to better results. He said that the fight against abuse, improving water, education, promotion of human rights and peace has been impressive because of the involvement of CSOs and NGOs, adding that both his government and the Union government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan are committed to strengthen the collaborations. Dr Mwinyi advised the NGOs and CBOs to focus on their objectives and avoid dubious deals for personal gains, urging the registrar of NGOs to maintain good relations with the private sector. In his speech, the Isles President directed the CSOs to strengthen campaigns against corruption and promote peace and stability. Mr Masoud Mohamed Ali- State Minister, President's Office (Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Department), said at the three-day forum that CSOs have been important contributors in development. "We cannot talk about any development without recognizing CSOs and NGOs. We will continue improving the environment for CSOs," he said. The Urban-West Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Idrissa Kitwana said that more than 350 NGOs/CSOs have been registered in his region and that all should be praised for playing a big role in supporting government activities. He cited the successful campaign against Covid-19 and abuse, "I urge all NGOs and CSOs to incorporate cleanliness of surroundings." The US Ambassador to Tanzania, Donald Wright said that his country in collaboration with NGOs have made investments that have enabled transformative changes in health, education, and economic advancement of Tanzanians, while also promoting democracy and security. Mr Wright said “We are encouraged by your decision to, again, pursue a Government of National Unity, and reassured by the principles upon which it was formed: reconciliation, tolerance, the protection of human rights, fairness in the rule of law and elections, and improvements in governance." He further encouraged the leadership of GNU to shed public light on the specifics of these commitments and their plans for making good on them, from the senior level within the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar down to the lower level. Ambassador of Switzerland to Tanzania, Didier Chassot thanked President Mwinyi for recognizing the diversity and vital role of CSOs and partnering with them to convene the first Zanzibar annual NGOs Forum "At a time when much to ur satisfaction- the space for civil society appears to be opening in Tanzania." "Both Presidents of Tanzania and Zanzibar have set an ambitious agenda for Tanzania's development, including investment in large infrastructure projects, energy, the blue economy, and better education facilities for children. We particularly welcome president Mwinyi's commitment towards combating gender based violence....and to reform media laws so as to create a more conducive environment for journalists," Chassot said. Foundation for Civil Society (FCS)'s Executive Director, Francis Kiwanga praised President Mwinyi for enabling CSOs work, saying it has been supporting Zanzibar CSOs and NGOs in the past years, spending about 4.8bn/- in the past three years in promoting peace, human rights, democracy, and gender equality. CSOs and NGOs forum was organized by ANGOZA in collaboration with Zanzibar government. The forum is expected to be closed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan.