RUKWA Regional Commissioner (RC) Mr Joseph Mkirikiti has said that a total of 40bn/ has been set aside by the government for execution of various development projects in the region. Mr Mkirikiti spoke of the godd news while closing the Rukwa Regional Consultative Committee (RCC) meeting held here in municipality over the weekend. Mkirikiti said that the region also received over 8.6bn/- from the Covid -19 Tanzania Social Economic Response Programme (TRCP) under International Monetary Fund (IMF) relief package, of which 6.5bn/- fund was channeled to the construction of 259 classrooms for secondary schools and 73 classrooms for satellite schools. “ A total 332 classrooms have been built with funds provided under relief package, each classroom costing around 20m/- as well as construction of health emergency facilities and worker’s houses,” Mr Mkirikiti explained. He further emphasized that in the first phase they focused on education projects but now they are busy implementing health projects. Mr Mkirikiti further emphasized that the aim of seeking from information from government institutions charged with the responsibility of implementing the projects is to know how the approved budget has been executed. “We hold consultative meetings to ensure that the funds set aside reached the perspective institutions for undertaking the activities planned.” emphasized the RC. Speaking on the sidelines of the meeting some participants interviewed by the Daily News said it was sad to learn that some heads of public institutions have not been speaking positively on projects carried out by the government in their areas, giving an opportunity to some individuals to issue misleading information via social platforms. Nkasi District Council chairperson, Mr Pacras Maliyatabu noted that some institutions have not been discharging their duties properly, giving an example of Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd (Tanesco) that have failed to provide clear information about frequent power cuts.