SPIRITUAL leaders have described President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s one year in office as ground-breaking and unique, pledging to pray for the leader to carry on with her outstanding performance. Ms Samia was sworn-in as President of the United Republic of Tanzania and Commander- in-Chief of the Armed Forces on March 19th, last year, following the passing on of President John Magufuli on March 17th, last year. Speaking after a meeting with the Head of State at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, the clerics showered praises on her for being an attentive, visionary and development-driven leader. “The most exemplary thing she has done is to reach out, listen and implement things the right way. She has indeed lifted the country. “We pray that she contin-ues to do it the same way. We call her mother and as always, the mother is right regardless of what,” the Head of the Hindu Community in Tanzania, Mr Sanjay Hoza, remarked. The Bishop of Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) in Karagwe Diocese, Dr Benson Bagonza, commented that the list of achievements recorded by the government under President Samia is far longer than the year of her presidency. Dr Bagonza on the other hand urged the government to engage the private sector towards improving the economy of the country as a whole and at individual level. “The other area that President Samia should stress on is freedom of expression. And, since she has now opened up the country, there is a need to amend some laws which have been hindering investors and by doing so, more capital will flow in and improve the economy,” the cleric reasoned. Tanzania’s Chief Sheikh, Mufti Abubakar Zubeiry bin Ally, pointed on how the Head of State has managed to demonstrate her patriotism and brilliance within a short period of time of her presidency. “We pray that she carries on with serving Tanzanians for the interests of the country. She has set out a new vision and direction of where the country is heading to,” the Mufti declared. The Head Bishop of the Evangelistic Assemblies of God Tanzania (EAGT), Dr Brown Mwakipesile, spoke of the president’s various foreign trips which he said has enabled Tanzania to cement relations and cooperation with other countries in the world. Dr Mwakipesile urged President Samia to always engage with religious leaders for advice, noting that even scriptures in the Holy Book of Bible states that kings used to seek counsel from prophets. For his part, the Head of the Aga Khan Community in Tanzania, Mr Nazir Thawei, praised the Head of State for promoting international relations, democracy and spearheading a vaccination campaign against Covid-19 pandemic. “The president has done many good things of which we have started to enjoy the fruits; I pray that she continues unlocking the country in order to attract more investors to boost our economy,” he remarked. The Chief Sheikh of Zanzibar, Mufti Salehe Omar Kaabi, commended her for exemplary leadership which has resulted in visible development during the past one year. Sheikh Kaabi was highly positive that there was more to come from President Samia during the remaining tenure and urged Tanzanians to rally behind and support her to accomplish the work that she has started. In his comments, the Head of Shiite Muslims in Tanzania, Sheikh Hemed Jalala, commended the government under President Samia for achievements it has recorded in a number of areas, expressing optimism that Tanzania will reach new heights under her leadership. The Head of Buddhism in Tanzania, Mr Ikpitye Panansekera, pledged to pray to God to shower blessings on President Samia, to enable her to carry on with the commendable performance in serving the people. “In some other countries when one leader leaves everything changes but this is different in Tanzania, we are happy that the country remains stable and work continues,” the Buddhist leader stated. Meanwhile, President Samia has pledged to arrange a meeting between religious institutions and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to sort out issues related to penalties and interests on outstanding taxes which the former owe the latter. She was hopeful that the engagement will lead to scrapping of the penalties and interests so that the religious institutions will be relieved of the burden and only pay the principal amount of taxes.