TWO years ago today, Tanzania recorded its first Covid-19 case, and since then, the country has adopted swift measures to tackle the pandemic and continues to make improving response. The virus was first declared in Arusha before spreading to other locations. So far, the country has recorded 33,773 cases and 800 deaths, according to Ministry of Health report on March 11th 2022. In the two years since, public health measures, including improved surveillance and contract tracing, testing and public awareness about preventive measures have been crucial in curbing the spread of the virus. Vaccination is also being stepped up to help control the pandemic, with a goal to vaccinate 60 per cent of the population. For a period of January 2020 to December 2021, World Health Organization (WHO) received a total of 6.6 million US dollars from different donors that have been directed towards different activities of the response, including the donation of equipment, training of various cadres of health workers and health managers, and deployment of experts. “WHO is grateful to different donors, supporters, and health workers for the effort that they have put in preparedness and responding to the pandemic. We hope that the collaboration will continue as we step ahead, and hope that in the foreseeable future, Tanzania will contribute towards making sure Covid-19 is no longer a public health threat,” Dr Tigest Ketsela Mengestu, WHO Representative in Tanzania said. WHO continues to support the country to bolster key pandemic response measures such as surveillance, testing, treatment, and community engagement. Throughout the pandemic, the organization has also provided technical guidance and support, and with its partners delivered crucial medical supplies and equipment to the country to combat the virus. “We’ve been at the forefront of the efforts to beat back this pandemic and continue to support all the efforts the national authorities are undertaking to effectively tackle Covid-19 and keep people safe,” said Dr Mengestu, Vaccination remains a powerful weapon against this pandemic. WHO is working with partner organizations to step up the uptake in the country. So far 2,664,373 people have been fully vaccinated. More efforts are needed to reach the wider population to protect them from the risk of severe illness and death. In the most recent situation report of the state of Covid-19 in Tanzania, the ministry of health continued to caution people to continue taking precautions by following all prevention measures in public spaces. “The past two years have been extremely challenging, but we’ve learned crucial public health lessons. We are emerging stronger and look forward to bolstering and improving the health system to be more resilient to future emergencies.”