VICE-PRESIDENT Philip Mpango has directed the National Housing Corporation (NHC) to be inventive in its undertakings to enable the stateowned real estate developer to be self reliant. Dr Mpango issued the directives yesterday during the launch of 3.1bn/-Mutukula Commercial Complex in Kagera Region, at the Mutukula border between Tanzania and Uganda. “It is better to make best use of the loan extended by the government. You should build capacity of the corporation to effectively implement projects and repay loans,” he directed. The VP said a self-reliant NHC would reduce the burden on government in financing its projects. He further urged the corporation to consider quality and durability in construction of residential houses to avoid incurring losses in the future. “You should speed up construction of residential and commercial buildings to cope up with the pace of increased economic activities along with growing of cities,” he urged the management of NHC. Dr Mpango said investments in construction industry, like those done by NHC, is among priorities of the 6th phase government given contribution of the sector in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and creation of employment opportunities. At the same occasion, the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development, Ms Angelina Mabula, said the ministry would continue supervising the corporation to achieve the expectations of the government. Ms Mabula appreciated the government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan for dishing a loan amounting to 173.9bn/- which she said will enable NHC to complete stalled development projects, particularly those in Dar es Salaam. The Director General of NHC, Mr Nehemiah Mchechu, said the real estate developer plans to erect commercial buildings at all strategic boarders in the country. “We have started with Mutukula but we are also considering projects at other boarders like Tunduma, Namanga and Horohoro,” Mr Mchechu remarked. The DG expressed gratitude to the government for allowing the corporation to access loans from financial institutions for execution of its projects and pledged to use the funds for the intended use. Mr Mchechu was positive that the Mutukula Commercial Complex will create new jobs through businesses to be conducted in the structure and eventually boost incomes of individuals and their families. Speaking in Dodoma early this month, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development, Dr Allan Kijazi, said President Samia had approved 173.9bn/- to complete stalled strategic projects. The projects in question include Morocco Square, Kawe 711, Morocco Square and 300 Regent Estate in Dar es Salaam. President Samia recently re-appointed Mr Mchechu as Director General of NHC, taking over from Dr Maulid Banyani who will be assigned other duties. Mr Mchechu previously served as Director General of NHC between 2010 and 2018.