THE African Union (AU) and its institutions have officially started implementation of use of Kiswahili as it declared in its working language at the 35th meeting of Heads of State. The heads of state made the directive after endorsing request by Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango, who argued that Kiswahili is one of the most spoken languages with more than 200 million speakers globally, hence should be given an official status. Dr Mpango said Kiswahili is already in use in various communities including the East African Community (EAC), the Southern African Development Community (SADC) as well as a teaching language in many African countries. In recognition of that, the African Commission and institutions that are under it are already implementing the declaration as witnessed, yesterday in its zoom meeting focusing on human rights. The Tanzania High Commission in Ethiopia said in a communiqué yesterday that in the 71st meeting of the Secretariat that has its headquarters in Banjul, Gambia, the United Republic of Tanzania should supply and bear the costs of four interpreters and the government answered the prayer positively, as the interpreters started the work right away yesterday. The communiqué availed that the meeting will take place up to May 13th this year, adding that the same interpreters will be at work in the 73rd ordinary meeting of the Commission expected to take place at Banjul in September this year. In addition to interpretation services, different documents in the meeting will be available in Kiswahili language. Using Kiswahili also will be the 71st meeting communication language of the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights- that is an institution of AU vested with the mandate to protect and promote human rights. The meeting will receive and discuss several reports in regard to human rights in the continent as well as receive reports from member countries as well as human rights commissions and civil societies. Tanzanian High Commissioner to Ethiopia and the Permanent Representative in the AU, Mr Innocent Shiyo commended the move, saying it was of its own kind, making Kiswahili the first and only African language to be officially used by the AU and its institutions. “Using Kiswahili language will enable millions of Africans to make a follow-up of the AU activities,” he noted, while congratulating President Samia Suluhu Hassan for handling the matter closely. Elaborating, he stressed on importance of such action as AU has clicked almost 59 years since its inception (first as Organisation of African Unity – OAU) in 1963. Kiswahili language will be a strong tool to promote African integration and used as a business language, specifically for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Ambassador Shiyo commended the National Kiswahili Council (BAKITA) for coordinating well participation of the interpreters in the meeting. March 30th this year, the Tanzanian High Commission in Ethiopia received the first ever Kiswahili diplomatic document No. PAPS/CMD/107/8/76105.22 inviting Tanzania to the 14th Special Ministerial Commission Meeting on Defence, Peace and Security.