MWALIMU Julius Nyerere was no stranger to brokering peace deals among warring factions. In early 1996, the father of the nation got appointed a mediator in Burundi, a move that was widely hailed by all parties concerned in that country and led to the decision to end the Great Lakes Initiative, which had comprised Nyerere, former US President Jimmy Carter, former President of Mali AmadouToure and former South Africa's Archbishop Desmond Tutu. Mwalimu Nyerere’s pick by the former Organization of African Unity(OAU) Secretary General DrSalim Ahmed Salim was because the latter felt Nyerere’s stature would bring international attention to the Burundi problem, that Mwalimu would be particularly knowledgeable about the situation as well as exceptionally committed to resolving a conflict that was affecting his country and that Nyerere had the international influence and standing to mobilise external political and donor support against stubborn army officers. This was an assignment he took wholeheartedly until his health took a toll on him. “Mwalimu left a mark in Burundi and was always optimistic that peace would one day return to the country,” recalls Mr Daniel Ole Njoolay, former Arusha Regional Commissioner. Mr Ole Njoolay, who used to host Mwalimu whenever the father of the nation visited Arusha, says Mwalimu Nyerere was a committed mediator who strived to look for an amicable solution that would quite down the guns in the East African country. A mediator at heart, Mwalimu devoted much of his time to bring the Pierre Buyoya team and other warring factions on the same table. “Mwalimu was a regular visitor at the Arusha International Conference Center (AICC), striving to restore peace in Burundi,” he recalls. The former High Commissioner to Nigeria describes Mwalimu’s death as one of the lowest moments in his life. “We were doing some renovations at Mt Meru Hospital and I had invited him to come to unveil the new-look hospital,” he narrates. According to the former regional commissioner, Mwalimu accepted the invite; however he had to first travel to London for a medical check-up. “He never came back, and it still hurts me to date.” In Paul Kimiti’s eyes, Mwalimu Nyerere didn’t like to see other Africans suffering in their own countries. The veteran politician cites the continent’s liberation struggle as a perfect manifestation of how committed he was in seeing a peaceful Africa. “He was always yearning to see a united and a stronger Africa,” says the former Minister. According to the octogenarian, Mwalimu’s role in Burundi mediation capped the life of a true diplomat who valued the importance of peace in Africa. However, his longtime friend would Nelson Mandela would replace him at the mediation table.