TANZANIA Premier League Board (TPLB) has maintained it will do everything to curb match-fixing in the Championship League as it heads to its climax.  The battle for the Premier League promotion has become intense among the top three sides which are all having equal chances to climb into the top flight league next season. DTB, Ihefu and the Tabora- based Kitayosce are close to the promotion diadem that will enable them trade with big teams of Premier League, a situation that compels every team to fight hard for maximum points. Speaking yesterday in the city, TPLB's Communications Officer Karimu Boimanda said they are aware that match-fixing cases most often erupt when the Championship league is close to the climax. "We are awake to ensure that no irregularities are entertained to all teams playing in the Championship League. We are going to be strict with this," he cautioned. The interesting part though is that the trio is set to face each other before the season ends. Kitayosce are travelling to play Ihefu at the Highlands Estate Stadium in Mbarali, Mbeya. The final game for Kitayosce will see them welcoming DTB at Ali Hassan Mwinyi Stadium in Tabora in a seemingly tough fixture for the both teams. However, slowly, leaders DTB continue to lose their supremacy of the championship as they currently enjoy a three-point lead at the top of the table with five games to play before ending the campaign. Their recent 2-2 draw with Fountain Gate has made the splint towards the Premier League promotion open and very entertaining. DTB who are based in Dar es Salaam have accumulated 56 points from 25 clashes. The outcome was rather a relief to the second-placed Ihefu who recorded a narrow 1-0 win over Mashujaa to keep their hopes of returning to the top flight league next term alive. Kitayosce who sit in third slot at the table also have 53 points similar to second placed Ihefu. If DTB manage to climb into the Premier League, then possibly, Dar es Salaam will have five representatives together with Young Africans, Simba, Azam and KMC. 