A CONTINGENT of 207 tourists from Israel jetted into the country yesterday ready to sample Tanzania’s attractions. An airbus AX-AGK owned by the Arkia Israeli Airlines Ltd touched down at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) at 13hrs, amid fanfare from Maasai traditional dancers. The group, which is part of the 750 tourists who were expected to visit Africa's Leading Destination, were also ushered into the country by officials from the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) and Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA). Speaking shortly after receiving the Israelites, TTB Board Chairman, retired Judge Thomas Mihayo described the influx as a strong statement of how Tanzania’s tourism was bouncing back from the effects of Covid-19. “This goes to show that Tanzania is now a safe destination and anyone can come here to make the most of the attractions that the country is endowed with,” said Judge Mihayo while addressing journalists who also witnessed the arrival of the first batch of the tourists. According to the TTB Chairperson, another 443 tourists from the Middle Eastern country were expected later in the day, pending Visa clearance from their countries. “This is a strong statement that Tanzania remains a preferred safe Safari destination in the world, amid the Covid-19 pandemic and other global challenges,” he explained. The number of Israeli tourists visiting had by yesterday reached 1,200, with a group of 400 who landed in the country on April 6, also expected to have left the country yesterday. The retired Judge assured the tourists of safety as they embark on sampling Tanzania’s attractions. In August last year, a group of 150 tourists visited the country for tourism-related activities. Tanzania has also been among African countries attracting Israeli tourists who mostly prefer touring wildlife parks and the Indian Ocean Island of Zanzibar. In 2017, Former Prime Minister of Israel, Ehud Barak poured praises on the country’s tourist potential and promised to come at some point. Mr Barak who was accompanied by 24 people including his family members, sampled wildlife animals, plant species and landscapes at Serengeti National Parks, before heading to Ngorongoro Conservation Area. In her rejoinder, Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (KADCO) Acting Managing Director, Christine Mwakatobe said Tanzanians had every reason to smile after receiving such a huge group of tourists during a low season. She attributed the feat to sheer hard work and robust marketing by TTB and other conservation agencies in the country. “A lot of effort has been done in marketing the country as a safe destination,” she said. Ms Mwakatobe also oozed confidence on the prospects of the Royal Tour documentary whose premiering is slated for tomorrow, saying it will woo even more tourists to the country. 