PEOPLE with diabetic retinopathy in the Central Zone now have no reason to travel all the way to Dar es Salaam to seek medication after the Dodoma-based Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) acquired Fundus Camera, an eye examination equipment to offer the services. Briefing reporters here yesterday, BMH's Executive Director, Dr Alphonce Chandika noted that 12.5 per cent of the 61 patients were diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy at BMH, Regional Referral Hospital and University of Dodoma Hospital for the past two weeks. “The patients were referred to Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro for further medication. This equipment will thus help to limit referrals to Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro,” said the hospital's boss after receiving the equipment.  The equipment was issued by the government thanks to Belfast-based Queen University of Scotland to facilitate a mission to stop diabetic retinopathy in the country. Dr Chandika expressed gratitude to the government for the eye optometry test equipment, saying BMH has set aside Tuesdays for serving people, who were diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy. Manager of National Eye Care Programme in the Health Ministry, Dr Bernadetha Shilio, informed that in 2015, the government had conducted an evaluation exercise to find out if diabetic patients get access to eye medication. “The evaluation exercise found out that only 30 per cent of diabetic patients got access to eye exam services,” she said. Dr Shilio said following the evaluation exercise, the government had developed a special programme to stop diabetic retinopathy, saying the programme had helped to find out a number of people who were diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy from only 700 to 18,000 per year. Director of Curative Services in the Health Ministry, Dr Omary Ubuguyu, pointed out that 5.7 per cent of the people aged between 20 and 79 are suffering from diabetic retinopathy in the country. “Surveys indicate that 35 per cent of diabetic people are at risk of getting diabetic retinopathy in the country," he said. Dr Rosemary Brennan from Inverness-based Hospital of Scotland said there is no pain for patients when undergoing check-up in the eye exam equipment, saying she was pleased that 61 people have already been screened from the eye exam equipment in the last two weeks. “So, I congratulate the team for the eye screening exercise of 61 people for the last two weeks,” she said.