THE debt market analysts are expecting the 20-year Treasury bond to be oversubscribed with an increase in yields as it goes under the hammer today. Today’s bond is the first to go under the hammer after the central bank revised coupon rates of all government securities late last week. Vertex International Securities said in their weekly market review that they think investors are shifting to lower maturities as yields for the longer term continue to decrease. “With the latest move of the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to lower coupon rates, we anticipate prices for Treasury bonds to decline and yields starting to go up. We expect next week’s 20–year bond to oversubscribe with an increase in yields,” Vertex said. The BoT wants to raise 129.82bn/- and offers a coupon of 12.10 per cent for the 20 years bond. The rate is down from 15.49 per cent. Zan Securities said in its weekly market wrap-ups that as the market adjusts to news of revised coupon rates they expect trading activities in the coming weeks to slightly decline. “However,” Zan said, “overall as we begin the second quarter of the calendar year, we expect yields to slightly rise as fixed-income investors will demand higher yields to compensate for inflation risk”. In terms of monetary policy switch by BoT, quarter two comes with a dilemma as costpush shocks simultaneously create both an upsurge in inflation and a potential negative output gap. “The BoT can either continue to ease its monetary policy to accommodate the potential negative output gap or tighten it to fight the looming upsurge in inflation,” Zan said. However, debt analysts said that the coupon rates adjustment was just a realignment between current prices and yields. Alpha Capital Head of Research and Financial Analytics Imani Muhingo said the adjustment “shall not have much effect” on the current trend of Treasury yields, rather than to correct the current significant premiums. “We wait to see how the market shall react in this week’s 20 years auction,” Mr Muhingo said. He further said the revision poises to stabilise bond prices and cement the lower yields accepted by the market now, which is a positive to the injection of liquidity in the economy. Last week during the auctioning of Treasury bills, BoT received 202.3bn/-from the public against an offer of 78.4bn/, translating to an oversubscription of 158 per cent. However, the bank ended up only taking 65.5bn/- of the tendered amount which was even lower than the offered amount. The yield for the one-year Treasury bill went down by 40 bps to 3.62 per cent down from 4.02 per cent that was recorded in the previous auction.