Vodacom Tanzania has launched a new season of the Digital Accelerator programme seeking start-ups that have innovative solutions and providing facilitation to empower these businesses to realize their aspirations. This comes after the 2020/21 cohort has completed their period in the programme. Vodacom Tanzania Digital and VAS Director Nguvu Kamando said in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday that innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit are key ingredients for achieving the goal of a strong digital economy in Tanzania. “Playing an enabling role is central to our mission. As such, we are always looking for collaborations and innovations that will fulfill this goal. We are justifiably proud and dedicated to our collaboration with Smart Lab to run the accelerator program for the benefit of innovative startups,” he said. The Accelerator Program is an expression of Vodacom’s determination to be a leader and enabler in the innovation ecosystem in Tanzania and is aimed at startups operating in fintech, edutech, health tech, entertainment, tourism, agriculture, cybersecurity and e-commerce. The new season comes after a successful culmination of the previous season’s time in the programme. The 2020/21 group finalists were Smart Class, an ed-tech platform, Hashtag Pools, an eCommerce operator, Ninsiima e-Dispensary and MyHi which deals in health insurance services who were filtered out of an initial field of 500 applicants from 18 regions. For the new season, selected start-ups will go through an initial programme that includes mentoring from experienced Vodacom staff, Smart Lab staff, and other respected professional mentors. Start-ups will also receive technology and creative support to launch and grow their start-ups from Smart Lab - which is a top tech and media company in Africa. After the initial period, participants will get marketing strategy and support, business connection, partnership, and funding after presenting their progress to a panel of investors and associates. Elaborating on the upcoming season, Edwin Bruno, CEO and founder of Smart Codes said, “it is our vision to apply technology to have an impact in Africa and our mission is to empower brands, so we are extremely proud and grateful to partner with a company like Vodacom Tanzania whose own purpose ties in so well with us,”.