MEMBERS of the Parliament have commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan for demonstrating good leadership and maintaining public confidence in her administration. They expressed confidence that the Head of State will take the country to greater heights in terms of good governance and adherence to rule of law. The lawmakers made the comments while debating 851bn/- budget estimates for the President's Office Public Services Management and Good Governance for the fiscal year 2022/23. Speaking in a debating chamber, the Kigoma Urban MP (CCM) Kirumbe Ng'enda said within her one year in office President Samia has managed to promote rule of law and good governance, accordingly. "President Samia has demonstrated principles of good governance by setting free all who were detained for a long time including religious leaders, politicians and businessmen," he said. He also urged on the need for the government to reinstate orientation seminars for presidential appointees for effective delivery of government objectives. Mr Ng'enda was of the view that orientation seminars for senior government officials and presidential appointees would fast track implementation of development projects and programmes for development of individuals and national level. His comment was seconded by the Kilwa South Mp (CCM), Mr Ali Kasinge who however called for speedy issuance of pension for retired members of civil service. He expressed a concern on the delay of pension funds to process pension of members of civil service who have served the government and the country at large for a long time, diligently. "There is also a delay in issuance of leave packages, disturbance allowances for those who are being transferred to other workstations, this demoralises working spirit for members of public service," he said. The Sengerema MP on CCM ticket, Mr Hamis Tabasamu, apart from commending the government for its continued efforts to improve service delivery, called for a need to review the scheme of service especially for District Administrative Officers (DASs) and division officers. He said despite the fact that DASs and division officers serve under the President's Office Public Services Management and Good Governance, most of the time, their daily responsibilities are under the President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG). He also suggested the establishment of clinics that will be handling concerns of retired members of the civil service at regional and district level. "This will help to address complaints from the public regarding the process of getting their pension on time as indicated in the law," noted Mr Tabasamu. The Hai MP, Mr Saasisha Mafue (CCM) asked the government to consider increasing the salary for civil servants for the latter to be able to address the rising cost of living. Same comments were issued by the Mlalo MP, Mr Rashid Shangazi (CCM) who said salary increment is vital for the development of individuals and the whole country. "It's high time for the government to increase workers' salaries as it has not been adjusted for the past six years, cost of living is so high for people who earn less, " he noted.