THE Public Relations Association (APRA) annual conference that is scheduled to take place in Dar es Salaam late next month is expected to attract over 300 foreign and local participants. The Public Relations Society of Tanzania (PRST) that is a member of APRA will host the five-day conference to take place from May 23 to 27th this year. “The delegates will come from 21 different African countries, while outside the continent, delegates are expected to come from the United states of America and United kingdom,” Mr Ndege Makura, PRST General Secretary told journalists in Dar es Salaam recently. The main theme of the conference, according to him will be ‘Change narratives of Africa’, which aims to contemplate and come up with the strategies of taking communications as means of branding African continent positively to the world. “PRST encourages university students, media practitioners and government employees to take part in the conference that will be of great importance for sharing experience and knowledge from their peers from different foreign countries,” Mr Makura appealed. He noted that the conference will have Tanzanian university students and public relations professionals. Ambassadors and high commissioners representing different African countries in Tanzania will also take part in the APRA conference, according to the PRST general secretary. Activities will involve exhibition for Tanzania’s culture and tourist attractions the country is endowed with. PRST Vice President, Ms Mary Kafyome called for media outlets in the country to help in publicizing the conference dubbed ‘APRA TZ 2022’. She also called for concerted efforts to join government’s efforts of marketing tourism attractions abroad by learning new skills from other experienced public relations officers. “I encourage local journalists and other public relations officers to take part in the forthcoming conference for them to learn new skills of branding Tanzania across the borders. It is time to get rid of the negative image of our country and the entire continent,”