PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan and Zanzibar’s Dr Hussein Mwinyi yesterday led top government leaders and ordinary wananchi in special prayers for the founding Islands leader Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume. Tanzanians yesterday commemorated the 50th death anniversary of the Zanzibar revolution legend, who was assassinated on April 7, 1972 at the Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) Kisiwandui main office. Karume is remembered for promoting human dignity and improving social services including provision of free medical care and education to all. He is also credited for the provision of water service and better housing among other legacies. Besides President Samia and Dr Mwinyi who arrived at the prayer’s venue at around 9:30 am, other dignitaries. were Union Vice-President Dr Philip Mpango, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa; wife of late Karume -- Mama Fatma Karume, Hafidh Ameir, who is the husband of President Samia and Zanzibar First Lady Maryam Mwinyi. The religious-cum-political event also attracted Zanzibar First Vice-President Othman Masoud Othman, Second Vice-President Hemed Suleiman, ruling party CCM Deputy National Vice-Chairperson (Mainland) Mr Abdulrahman Kinana and the retired President of Zanzibar Amani Karume. After the prayers at the grave, some selected leaders led by President Samia laid wreaths of flowers on the grave of the former leader. Others who laid wreaths were Dr Mwinyi, Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) Venance Mabeyo, a representative from family -- Ambassador Ali Karume and Consulate General of India in Zanzibar Mr Bhagwant Singh on behalf of all the ambassadors.
Clerics from Muslims, Christian (Anglican Church), and Hindu led the prayers at the graveyard of late Karume, describing the deceased as a man who brought unity among Tanzanians, cared for children and elderly, and lived his dreams of making Zanzibar a great country.
Administering the prayers, Sheikh Khamis Abdullhamid Muradi described the late Karume as an outstanding leader, who left a discernible legacy, which still guides the islanders 50 years in his absence.
He said the late Karume was a committed leader, who promoted unity and hardwork and was always making close follow up on the implementation of government policies, plans and projects.
Sheikh Muradi noted that during his nine-year reign, the late Karume performed great things towards improvement of the welfare of wananchi as per the 1964 Zanzibar revolutions’ objective.
The cleric also credited Mzee Karume for construction of Mulism College that has produced a good number of graduates who are leaders.
The Zanzibar Deputy Chief Kadhi Hassan Othman Ngwali, said “Mzee Karume will continue to be remembered because he contributed to laying a solid foundation for Africans’ political independence through strengthening unity, solidarity and love.”
The Minister of State, Office of the President- Constitution, Legal Affairs, Public Service and Good Governance Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman said the late Karume is credited for alleviating poverty.
“Late Karume remain in people’s hearts because of many things including three-acre land distribution to the poor; provision of free education without discrimination; and free medical care.”
Minister Haruna also said the previous and incumbent governments, after the death of Karume, have been promoting the policies of the late Karume including providing free education, health services as well as the construction of modern housing for people to live in better places. Karume’s son, Ambassador Ali Karume said that his father is regarded as a special person because he was a man of the people and focused on development of the country. Mr Ali thanked the government and party leaders for continuing to honour his father for the past 50 years since his death.
Dar es Salaam Regional Sheikh Alhad Mussa Salum said Zanzibaris and Tanzanians in general have reasons to pray for Karume because he was behind the Union and that the current President Hussein Mwinyi is following in his footsteps. Ms Zawadi Hussein Abdalla, a Member of CCM, said that late Karume in his leadership focused more on the plight of the weak people (the poor, children orphans, elderly) to ensure that all citizens are equal in livelihood. “His leadership is exemplary and should be embraced by every leader in this country, and looking at the trend of the eighth phase government, it gives us great hope that it reflects the direction of Mzee Karume,” she said. Zanzibaris, as they commemorate 49 years without Karume, still appreciate the leader who worked hard to cement unity, solidarity and reconciliation among the Islanders after the 1964 revolutions.