THE Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) is set to award best employers in December this year, after suspending it for two consecutive years due to Covid-19. The Employer of the Year Awards (EYA) is an initiative meant to inspire and motivate the country’s employers to do the best as per the laws at their workplaces. ATE Executive Director said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the process to select winners involves employers filling in a document asking them different issues about whether they have met requirements stipulated in law and regulations at their workplaces. “Since its introduction, the EYA event has helped to sensitise and promote employers to improve their working environment by ensuring legal compliance and national standards for high productivity and competitiveness at the workplaces,” she said. The EYA is conducted annually to recognize and award the best employers with best practices in business and human resources management and do business under legal standards. It has also helped to promote decent business and harmony in workplaces. She said ATE used two years without awards to review the EYA process based on the current business environment, incorporating aspects that contribute to business and human resources to create and sustain enterprise competitiveness, and improve productivity to do responsible business in the country. Following that review and recommendations from members of the association, EYA 2022 will be based on 14 criteria including governance and leadership, human resources and management excellence, managing diversity and inclusion, talent management and development, and quality, productivity and innovation. Other criteria are corporate social responsibility, employees’ engagement, performance management, apprenticeship and internship, gender equality and equity, compliance with regulatory requirements and others. There are seven categories which are overall winner, public sector award winners, private sector award, local employer award, NGO employer award, size-based award and local content award.