PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has categorically stated that the rhino horns and elephant tusks cache will neither be sold nor destroyed. The President, who recalling one of the scenes in the Royal Tour Documentary premiered in Arusha on Thursday evening, insisted that the cache kept at an undisclosed location in Dar es Salaam’s outskirts, will be preserved as a reminder of the atrocities committed on the wildlife. “It will show how the poor animals were massacred, and it will remind the viewers the importance of preserving and conserving our natural resources,” she stated. President Samia, who also took Peter Greenberg, an award winning American journalist who produced the feature-film on a brief tour of the cache, said the heap of rhino horns and elephant jumbos spoke volume of the unspeakable atrocity on the animals, which also saw a tremendous decline in jumbo numbers in the country. “We were once in dilemma, but the decision is that we wouldn’t sell or dispose the cache because it will send avery bad message to the whole world,” said the President while conversing with Mr Greenberg in the approximately one hour documentary. The country’s number one Tour Guide insisted on one of the scenes of the documentary that the cache will be preserved to remind and educate the world on the need of putting an end to elephant and rhino massacre in Tanzania and the world at large. According to the President, the cache is worth $50million, much to the shock of the respected US travel journalist. The 2014 census estimated that the country had only 43,330 elephants remaining from a population of about 110,000 in 2009, representing a 60.3 per cent decline nationally in five years. The massive poaching was attributed to an insatiable market predominantly in Asia. It led to Tanzania’s classification in 2013 by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) among the ‘gang of eight’ countries alongside Kenya, Uganda, Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Thailand and China. Tanzania, has however registered an impressive rebound in its elephant and rhino populations following a four-year multipronged fight against poaching.