YOUNG Africans seek to go 13-point clear at NBC Premier League helm when they face Namungo hurdle at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. It is a 22-man battle between leaders Yanga and the third-placed Namungo despite being separated by 21 points, but both sides are looking forward to do the right business in a race for the maximum points. The duo meet in a record-making match as neither of them has managed to claim victory when facing each other in the league with all their previous meetings elapsing in draws. This is an opportunity for them to create a new history of becoming the first side to triumph over the other as such, the normal 90 minutes of play are going to be tense for them. At a pre-match briefing yesterday, Yanga Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze said they need to have a good performance in order to get convincing results and go home with the massive win. "We are facing a good team which has got competitive players capable to score goals from minimal chances they create. They do not need to have many scoring opportunities as they utilise well few chances they make to score goals. "We are aware of that and we have prepared ourselves not to let them create those chances. We have an objective of the season which is to win the championship and to implement that, we have to do well in most of our games including tomorrow's (today) match," Kaze said. He also disclosed that Saido Ntibazonkiza and Yacouba Sogne are two players set to miss the match while the rest are all fit to fight for their club and ensure that they come out clean from the encounter. He then urged Yanga fans to flock at the venue in big numbers to rally behind their team saying despite the fact that they have never won against Namungo, his players are sharpened to erase that record. On his part, Namungo Head Coach Honour Janza said they are well prepared for the big match and looking forward to get all three points to continue ascending at the top of the table. "I can say we are done with preparations and what we are looking for is to witness the game unfolding. We are facing a good team with experienced players who are hungry to win any match but we are ready to do our part," he said. His player Shiza Kichuya said they will try to use the tactical formula tasked by their coach so as to emerge winners at the end of the big game even though they are aware that the match will be difficult. "We respect Yanga, they are a big team and are playing at their turf with many fans behind them but for us, our focus will be on the ball and ensure that we showcase what we have been training for," he insisted. The last time they met at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi, Yanga forced a 1-1 draw after a late equalisation from Ntibazonkiza who netted via a controversial spot kick.