THE United Kingdom’s Minister for Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, Vicky Ford, has commended the government’s decision to allow dropouts to get back to school. “I am really pleased to see Tanzania allowing all children to return to school after dropping out. This is a great move to assure all children get education,” Ms Ford stated. “As leaders, educators, fathers and mothers, we have to know that the public will reach its full potential if we help children realise their potential. This is why education is the priority of your President (Samia Suluhu Hassan),” she said when launching a new education programme called ‘Shule Bora.’ The launching event for the multibillion-programme to be implemented in nine regions was held in the Coast Region on Monday this week. The particular regions are Dodoma, Katavi, Kigoma, Mara, Pwani, Rukwa, Simiyu, Singida and Tanga. The 271bn/-programme (89 million Pounds) targets to benefit over four million children. The ‘Shule Bora’ initiative, to be funded by the UK Aid, is meant to deliver quality, inclusion and safety education for all children in public schools. “Children who have been educated have the opportunity to prosper. Girls, in particular, are left behind, this is why it is our priority,” she said. Among other components, the programme will be supporting teachers in using inclusive pedagogies, supporting government to identify and assess children with special needs, providing assistance to the government’s Education Support and Resource Assessment Centres (ESRAC) which offers care and support for children with albinism and low vision and deliver improved teaching of 3Rs to children with visual and hearing impairments. Speaking at the launching event, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolf Mkenda, said the programme is a huge investment in the education sector for ensuring that all children have access to school. “It intends to improve education. It is in line with the government’s objective to improve education,” Prof Mkenda argued, highlighting some of the government's steps to improve education, such as reviewing education policy, laws and improving human resources. “The review is aimed at making education be in line with current needs in the job market and science and technological growth,” he stated. On his part, Deputy Minister in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, David Silinde, said the sixth phase government was thankful for the UK’s support to education through the ‘Shule Bora’, programme. Mr Silinde promised the UK Minister that the government will ensure that all funds brought in for implementing the programme are spent for intended purposes.