…Earns praise for citizenry engagement PUNDITS have given thumb-up to President Samia Suluhu Hassan for her regular and enduring engagement with various groups of the citizenry, listening to their challenge and thereafter, providing explanation on how the government plans to address them. The experts, who spoke to ‘Daily News’ in exclusive telephone interviews on Wednesday, were of the view that President Samia has done a great job of communicating to the masses, especially on what her government is up to as far as interests of each group and the country as a whole are concerned. “Apart from physical meetings with these groups, President Samia is known to be a keen follower of independent views which are channeled through the social media. “Through the social media, the president is able to aptly understand expectations of the people from the government,” a lecturer on journalism at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM)’s School Journalisms and Mass Communication, Dr Egbert Mkoko told this paper. Dr Mkoko noted further that during the past one year, President Samia has demonstrated her leadership skills by engaging various stakeholders through a number of forums. According to the expert, it is through such engagements that the general population is kept abreast with the vision and direction of the government in bringing about development. During the past one year in office, Ms Samia first addressed the National Assembly on April 22, 2021 in Dodoma and thereafter, held a series of meetings with various groups. The meetings included elders, women, youth, people with disabilities in addition to leaders of political, civil society organizations (CSO’s), and Tanzanians in the Diaspora. A lecturer at John’s University in Dodoma, Dr Alfred Sebahene, described the president as a leader with a spirit of calmness, stability and composure in decision-making. “She is aware of needs of different groups, particularly the needy one, of the society and seeks to address their challenges,” Dr Sebahene remarked. For his part, former Deputy Rector of the Centre for Foreign Relations and economic diplomacy expert, Prof Kitojo Wetengere, pointed out that through meetings with the stakeholders, President Samia has pledged to open up the country. “She has met with different groups and made respective promises to each of the groups including the youth, political parties and Tanzanian in the Diaspora, among others,” Prof Wetengere stated. Prof Wetengere mentioned some the promises made by President Samia as strengthening of democracy, which she made to leaders of political parties, inclusion of women and youth in leadership positions as well as considering dual citizenship for Tanzanians in the Diaspora. In separate interview, the President of Tanzania Association of Accountant (TAA), Mr Godvictor Lyimo, opinioned that President Samia has embraced the philosophy of teamwork in moving the way forward. Among others, Mr Lyimo was glad that President Samia had directed the construction of schools and health centres through the 1.3trl- Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) loan from International Monetary Fund (IMF) should be implemented by Tanzania. “The President considers views of other people and as such take time to listen to what others have to say. Even political parties have high hopes in her leadership. “It is apparent that the president wants all of us to forge ahead as a country and that is why she engages every group in the society,” he noted. Mr Lyimo observed that through her leadership, collection of revenues and expenditure of loans has been made transparent for every citizen to understand where every cent is channeled to. “What is more, the existing team work has improved economy diplomacy and benefited Tanzanians at home and those in the Diaspora,” he remarked during the interview. And, even with the COVID-19 pandemic which has negative impact on tourism industry in Tanzania and globally, Mr Lyimo was confident that Tanzania was picking up as the number of tourists has started to jet in the country.