Tanzania is reviewing its 15 years old timeframe that restricted airport ground handling operations in a bid to fully liberalise the subsector. The latest review was done six years ago where, Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) improved some services in comparison to the two previous changes made in 2009 and 2013. On Monday, according to TCAA, the ground handling stakeholders met to review and take into consideration the criteria of economics and airport infrastructures with the realization that the forecast period of 15 years expires next year. TCAA Director General Mr Hamza Johari named some of the restrictions as limited the number of service providers thus defeating the law of demand and supply—which is best to safeguard consumers and players' interests. “Fully liberalising of ground handling services will get rid of unfair business practices as exclusivity shall always be avoided at the airports. “[And] a service provider shall be granted to operate at all points of the airports and not to specific areas in the same airport,” Mr Johari said during the stakeholders' meeting. The TCAA chief said the full opening up of the service will be achieved if the ground handling market behaviour is “left to be determined by forces of demand and supply” and not restricting services. According to him, TCAA has reached such a paramount decision of reviewing the sector and found that there is a need for more ground handling services providers. The expected benefits from fully liberalisation are that the market forces will be left to take a lead in determining the rates, charges, and quality of services. “TCAA in the future,” Mr Johari said, “will assess the airport proposal and decide on merits based on economic and airport infrastructural criteria, before granting a license”. The Analysis indicates that passenger traffic, aircraft movements, and in and outbound cargo are progressively growing year after year and airport infrastructures have steadily improved in terms of facilities, size and technologies. The firms provide services to some 24 airlines operating in the country. Some of the grounds handling service providers are Swissport Tanzania Plc, NAS-DAR Airco, Airco Holdings Limited, Via Aviation Limited, Fastlink Safaris and Tours Limited, and Precision Air Services Plc.