DESPITE enjoying a 10-point lead at the summit of the NBC Premier League, Young Africans have been told not to relax but rather approach each game which comes on their way with winning mentality. The caution was made recently in Dar es Salaam by the club's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingiza who called on players not to lose focus with the current 10-point superiority. "I think we stand a better chance to win the title and it is within our reach, but this is football. There is no way to relax, but to play each game as if it is a last match. "We have to be focused, each and every game that we are playing is very important. You cannot see the 10-point gap and start celebrating, we have to be focused and take one game at a time," he said. He also seized the platform to herald Coach Nasreddine Nabi and his entire technical bench for the good works they are doing at the club saying he has brought in a new system in the team which is working well. Giving his insights on the approaching traditional derby match with Simba on April 30th, he said when the two sides meet; it always becomes a big game basing on the history of the two teams. "This time around, I have never been so confident about the derby because before you go to fight, you first look at the army and ammunition you have. "In the field of play, we have enough ammunition to do well without encountering many problems. I have never been confident, but this time, I am very confident to do well," the CEO reiterated. However, before facing their long time opponents, Yanga will play Namungo at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday in another mouth-watering league match expected to attract attention of the entire football fraternity. The first round meeting of them climaxed in a 1-1 draw as Yanga came from behind to level the deficit with a controversial penalty. As such; a multi-million worth question is will Namungo become the first team to upset the Jangwani street giants this season? The answer will be produced at the sound of the final whistle of the tense match.