SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has vowed to continue preparing college students for self-employment in the field of agriculture. The end goal of the country’s second largest brewer is ultimately to enhance the sector’s contribution to economic development. The SBL Moshi Plant Manager, Ms Alice Kilembe, said at the event to award beneficiaries support brewer's scholarship programme at the Kilacha Agriculture Training Institute recently that: "SBL will strengthen the agricultural sector by educating more young agricultural officers in support of the government's agricultural reforms." She added, SBL agriculture programme is in line with the pledge to prepare college students for self-employment in the field of agriculture after they complete their diploma courses, as well as one of the society 2030 spirit of progress pillars, with the goal of providing equal access to skills and resources in order to build inclusive communities that work for all. To put their pledge into action, the brewer has continued to motivate beneficiaries of their Kilimo Viwanda scholarship programme by awarding them certificates of recognition for their efforts and brilliance. SBL has been supporting the agriculture sector by dealing with hundreds of farmers in Tanzania who supply beer-making cereals such as maize, sorghum, and barley. Thus, the SBL agriculture programme is geared to add more successful farmers and young agricultural extension officers. Over the past three years, the brewer's agricultural programme has provided technical and financial assistance that positively impacted the lives of 400 farmers and their communities, sourcing up to 18,000 tonnes annually, boosting farmers' incomes, and contributing to national economic growth through consistent tax remittance. Speaking on behalf of Kilimo Viwanda beneficiaries, Ester Mrina said, they are grateful to have received these honours from SBL since they serve as inspiration to work well in the classrooms. “It is a great debt to us,” she said. SBL has, through Kilimo Viwanda Scholarship programme, financed over 200 students since its inception in 2019. Kilacha Agriculture Training Principal, Benito Mwenda lauded SBL's efforts to educate students about the world of commercial agriculture. Kilimo Viwanda programme benefits other three colleges in Bagamoyo-based Kaole Wazazi College of Agriculture, St Maria Goretti College of Agriculture in Iringa and Igabiro Training Institute of Agriculture in Bukoba, Kagera region.