THE government in collaboration with the World Health Organisation and UNICEF are finalising preparations for a nationwide polio vaccination campaign that will be offered door-to-door this month. More than nine million children under the age of five in Mainland and Zanzibar isles will receive the polio vaccines, following a recent confirmed case of polio in Malawi. The Immunisation Vaccine and Development Programme Manager (IVD-PM) at the Ministry of Health, Dr Florian Tinuga disclosed this in Morogoro yesterday, noting that the first round of the supplemental vaccination took place in four regions that border Malawi including Mbeya, Songwe, Njombe, and Ruvuma. The campaign will be supported by the World Health Organization, UNICEF, Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and funded by Gavi and Bill and Melinda Foundation. She disclosed that vaccine coordinators from all over Tanzania have been in Morogoro for three days before imparting knowledge to regions, districts, and locals ahead of the vaccination exercise. The first round was successful to a large extent. We vaccinated more than the targeted number of children. Early preparations and effective mobilization of the targeted community facilitated acceptance of the vaccination exercise. “The second round of the vaccination is expected to begin on 21 April this year after completion of the first round that reached more than one million under five children in the four regions,” said Dr Tinuga. According to her, more than nine million children under five will be reached with polio vaccination in 31 regions in Tanzania. The campaign is critical for Tanzania and the rest of Africa to maintain its polio free status that was granted two years ago after the continent registered no polio case for several years. The Immunisation and Vaccination Team Lead at WHO Tanzania, Dr William Mwengee said that “We are using this gathering in Morogoro to learn what worked well and expound lessons from the implementation of the first round of the campaign.” He noted that some of the drivers of success in the first round were owed to the commitment of the frontline vaccination team, supervisors, and mobilisers. “Because of community mobilization efforts nearly 100 per cent of all targeted households were aware about the campaign,” he said. Reports from the first-round show that the main sources of information during the campaign were social mobilisers, religious leaders, TV/Radio, and megaphones. Besides, some of the challenges encountered include difficult terrain, sparse population, and heavy rains in some locations and low internet connectivity in some areas. The report also indicates that vaccinators reached 98 per cent of targeted homes with preliminary data of the first-round showing that 100 per cent of targeted households accepted vaccination. Participants of three-day training in Morogoro include district and regional vaccination and immunisation officers, national and international consultants and officials from the Ministry of Health and the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government.