EVEN though he absent from us in body, his ideas and contributions to Tanzania we have today are still alive. The late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who was born 100 years ago, played a great role in the independence of Tanganyika in 1961 and the formation of Tanzania following the merger of Tanganyika and Zanzibar in 1964. The founding father, who unfortunately died on 14th October 1999, has left a living legacy that makes all Tanzanians proud of their country that Mwalimul Nyerere had shaped during and after his tenure in office. Nyerere played a crucial role in making Tanzania through a number of initiatives that were introduced for implementations. Some of the ideas that were introduced by Tanzania’s first president include the shifting of government headquarters to Dodoma from Dar es Salaam and the construction of the hydroelectric power projects in Rufiji. Construction of the state of art hydro power dam was meant to ensure the country is served with enough power supply from reliable sources, guaranteeing sustainable development. Each phase of government has played its part in implementing Nyerere aides, enabling the nation to witness transformation. So far, the government has already shifted its business to Dodoma in a move that kickedoff in 2017 during the administration of the 5th Phase government that was under the late Dr John Magufuli, making Dar es Salaam to remain the country’s commercial hub. However, there are sub offices of the government’s key offices such as ministries, security and defense forces. Offices of international organizations, embassies and residences of the members of the diplomatic corps are still in Dar es Salaam; waiting for the completion of construction of their structures in Dodoma as the government has already provided them with plots in the new Capital City. All these are part of the efforts to ensure the dreams and plans of the Founding Father of the country are fully implemented. In so doing, the government is now implementing the construction of Julius Nyerere Hydroelectricity Power Project (JNHPP) in Rufiji district, Coast Region; the project is expected to produce 2,115 MW that will be added to the national grid. Celebrating Nyerere’s Century Execution of the project which is undertaken by a joint venture of Egyptian companies, Arab Contractors and El Sewedy Electric Company, kicked off in 2018 and it is now expected to be completed in 2024. As of June 2020, the project was completed by 40 per cent whereas in January last year, the bypass tunnel for the dam site was functional and excavation of the 50 metre deep dam base was in progress. The three head-race tunnels, which will supply nine penstocks for the nine turbines, were under construction. Each of the nine turbines has the capacity of producing 235MW. Foundation for the power house was also in progress. Speaking in different occasions with the Daily News, analysts also commended the government for its continued efforts to undertake projects that are the brain child of Mwl Nyerere. “Mwalimu Nyerere saw hydropower dams as a key deliverers of his ambitious modernisation programme,” said Ms Rachel Yusuph Mariam, a commentator who lectures at the Tumaini University Dar es Salaam College (Tudarco). Highlighting the country’s 1969-1974 Second Five-Year Development Plan that aimed at fast tracking industrialization the government said it would need sufficient and cheap electricity for its development programmes. The first Head of State also had an idea of developing the country’s infrastructure, including constructing the bridge from Kurasini tu Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam. The bridge that was built by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) at a cost of 140 million US dollars is now known as Nyerere Bridge. The government is also taking a number initiative on connecting the country through infrastructural projects including construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) line that is meant to connect Dar es Salaam to western and lake zone regions. The project also intends to connect Tanzania and neighboring countries of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The SGR is now being implemented in different lots-Dar es Salaam-Morogoro (lot one) Morogoro- Makutopora (lot two) Makutopora-Tabora (lot three), Tabora- Isaka (lot four) and Mwanza Isaka (lot five). “The governments in all phases have done a wonderful job. Each phase has played its part in different sectors to ensure the vision of the Founding Father is realized,” said Mr Jerum Kilumile, an assistant lecturer at Mzumbe University, Morogoro. The commentator maintained that it was crucial for the government to continue to honoring and cherishing the philosophies of Mwalimu Nyerere for national prosperity. “Mwalimu Nyerere was a champion of national peace, unity and tranquility, resulting in stability that the country is enjoying right now despite the number of tribes and ethnic groups available in the country,” he added. The comments were echoed by a `University of Dodoma (UDOM) lecturer Dr Paul Loisulie who said effective execution of projects that are the brainchild of the first president plays a crucial role in keeping his ideas alive. “As we are commemorating the 100th birthday, we have also to remember his ideas of Socialism and creation of economies that served all citizens without a bias,” he suggested. Speaking last year ahead of the commemorations of 22 years since the demise of Mwl Nyerere, President Samia Suluhu Hassan also said the first Head of State raised Tanzanians without considering religious differences, something that has helped to forge unity among Tanzanians. “We thank President Nyerere, who raised us under a system of secularism,” she said. Moreover, the government is also implementing Nyerere vision on enabling each Tanzanian child has access to formal education by introducing a fee free basic education policy The policy is being implemented by the government through direct support of schools using capitation grants, whereas over 23bn/- is being issued monthly.