PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has commended efforts being taken by religious leaders in shaping the youths to become good citizens. “I am happy to see young people engaging in religious activities, this is an opportunity for them to become good citizens,” Mwinyi said when he joined Muslims for Friday mass prayers at Masjid (Mosque) Kheir, Markaz-Mombasa. He praised the good work being done by the Mosque leaders for teaching young people, especially during the Holy Month of Ramadan because it will help to have youths who are well behaved and can contribute to the development of Zanzibar. “I have been attending mass prayers in different mosques since the beginning of the Ramadan; I am impressed to see many youths engaged in prayers and teachings. This is good because it guarantees having good citizens,” Dr Mwinyi said, urging them to maintain peace and stability. Sheikh Khalid Mfaume, Executive Secretary, Office of the Zanzibar Muftis also praised the Markazi for the good nurturing of the young people to avoid bad behaviours, and that clerics have played an important role in uniting people. Sheikh Ahmed Seif Nassor who led the prayers said that reminding or teaching people including young people is among the benefits of the annual Ramadan, a period when all healthy adult Muslims are required to fast (to abstain from food and drinks) from dawn to sunset for 30 days. Meanwhile, the Zanzibar Utilities Regulatory Authority (ZURA) has announced an increase in fuel prices effective from yesterday April 09, 2022, urging people to buy fuel from authorised dealers. Mr Mbarak Hassan Haji- Head of Public Relations Unit- ZURA which is under the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals said at a press conference that the price of petrol, diesel and kerosene has increased compared to last month prices. He said that the current prices of petrol, kerosene and diesel are 2642/-, 2173/-, and 2644/- per litre respectively instead of 2459/-, 1811/-, and 2500/- used last month. But despite the increase, the government is subsidising 250/- to prevent big increase. On average, Zanzibar imports and consumes about 18 million litres of fuel (petrol, kerosene, and diesel) monthly, “We ask people to avoid buying fuel illegally,” he said. He said the Russian/Ukraine conflict is to blame for the global inflation which has not spared almost any country.  