SIMBA Head Coach Pablo Franco has described the 1-0 victory over Orlando Pirates at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam as a big advantage towards sailing to the CAF Confederation Cup semis. The Msimbazi Street Reds maintained their 100 per cent home performance of the competition through Shomari Kapombe's 68th minute spot-kick that gave them a fresh breath ahead of the return game at Orlando Stadium in Soweto, South Africa on Sunday. It was a great start for the hosts who continued to utilise the home-ground advantage to claim the victory that put them in a good position to play in the tournament’s semis. "Of course, when you are playing your first quarter-final game and you win without conceding goals is a big advantage, but here in Africa, it is very difficult to play away matches. "We know the quality of our opponents, they are a great team and we know that their performance at home will be better and we are already aware that so far in this competition, our away performance was not good. "So, on paper, the results are good for us but there are factors we need to work on in order to be more competitive and go there with a good plan. We need to try to score one goal because the game will be difficult," said Franco at a post-match briefing. He also narrated that they need to be more solid in defence than the way they were in games they played away while insisting that they will have enough days to work out a winning plan before the reverse leg. He then labelled Orlando Pirates as a good team in attacking, defending and transition saying that is the reason his side could not create many scoring opportunities throughout the game. "Especially in the first half, they were more compact and in the second half, the match was more open as they too wanted to score. This was not like other home matches whereby we do create many scoring chances," said the Spanish trainer. His counterpart for Orlando Pirates Mandla Ncikazi partly blamed the referee saying  that the penalty awarded to Simba was not right. He also said he was upset as their plan of scoring a goal did not work for them while believing that in South Africa, they will try their level best to turn things around. In the Sunday's reverse game, Simba will miss playmaker Bernard Morrison who primarily is not allowed to enter in South Africa and was the one who sourced the penalty after being fouled inside the box.