EXECUTION of strategic development projects remains intact, including construction of five phases of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) stretching 1,219 kilometres whose total cost is pegged at 14.72tri/-, Works and Transport Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, reiterated on Tuesday. Prof Mbarawa made the assurance at Cheyo grounds in Tabora, while representing President Samia Suluhu Hassan, at a ceremony to lay a foundation stone for construction of Makutopora-Tabora section of SGR, which stretches 368 kms. The minister said the government has already paid 609.36bn/- to the contractor of the third phase of the project, YapiMerkezi. Total costs of the project which is slated for com- pletion in October 2025 stands at 4.4tri/-. Construction of the projects have created 16,000 direct jobs, he said, and tasked the company undertaking the scheme to complete it on time, stressing that the government will not tolerate re- quests for extension. “There are also plans to construct a dry port in Tabora which will serve as a logistics hub for the central corridor by connecting Tanzania and its land-linked countries of Burundi, Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),” he explained. Prof Mbarawa stated that the government has already dished 6.13tri/- out of the total 14.76tri/ the five phases of SGR from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza. Contractors of the projects have in turn paid 1.776tri/- to 1,663 subcontractors who have paid taxes amounting to 441bn/-, he stated. Prof Mbarawa was confi- dent that SGR will significantly reduce congestion and transportation costs since a single trip has the capacity to haul 10,000 tonnes, which is equivalent to 500 trucks. He mentioned other ongoing projects as construction of Wami Bridge whose completion is set for July, this year, as well as Kigongo-Busisi Bridge across Lake Victoria, whose construction is well underway. Earlier, the Director General of Tanzania Railway Corpora- tion (TRC), Mr Masanja Kadogosa, assured Tanzanians that the first electric trains will start plying between Dar es Salaam and Dodoma will commence in the last week of this month. “When President Samia as- sumed office we had two sections one from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro and from Morogoro to Makutopora but we now have a total of five sections which are in different stages of development,” he explained. The TRC boss said progress on the 300 kilometre-Dar es Salaam-Morogoro section has reached 95.32, adding that a trial trip was conducted along the stretch last Sunday. “The progress of the Morogoro-Dodoma section is at 82.68 per cent and construction work is underway. The remaining track is between 40 and 50 kilome- tres,” he stated. The third phase of SGR entails the Makutopora-Tabora section whose construction was launched through the laying of the foundation stone on Tuesday. Mr Kadogosa said signing of an agreement for construction of Tabora-Isaka section covering a distance of 165 kilometres will be signed anytime from now. On the other hand, he said construction of the Isaka-Mwan- za phase which covers 341 kilo- metres has reached 4.46 per cent. The TRC DG emphasized that construction of the SGR does not cover railway lines alone but also electricity lines, noting that the corporation is working hand in hand with Tanzania National Electric Company (Tanesco) in execution of the projects. He said electricity infrastructure for the first phase has been completed while that of the second phase has reached 73 per cent. Mr Kadogosa also revealed that construction of Tabora- Kigoma and Uvinza-Msongati (Burundi) is still at the procurement stage. Plans are to extend the railway line to Burundi, Rwanda and DRC to tap on huge ship- ments of heavy minerals in those areas including nickel, copper, lithium and tin, among others.