A FINANCIAL audit report by Controller and Auditor General (CAG) based on a debt portfolio database has shown that there were eleven contracted loans worth 2.4tri/- which were signed between 1990 and 2020 but the loans were not disbursed as of 30 June, 2021. In the report, the CAG said he noted that the loans were registered in the Commonwealth Secretariat- Debt Recording and Management System (CS-DRMS) but there were neither corresponding transactions of disbursement nor repayment. The CAG, Mr Charles Kichere, made the revelation in the annual audit report for the central government for fiscal year 2020/2021, which was among audit reports presented to President Samia Suluhu Hassan on March 30, this year and later tabled in the parliament on April 12, this year. The audit report attributed the non-disbursement of the loans to delays of the government in fulfilling conditions and procurement procedures. The CAG thus recommended to the government to enhance coordination mechanisms in facilitating reconciliation of signed loan contracts and their disbursements. He also proposed the need for the government to make follow up through the National Planning Division (NPD) with implementing agents to ensure conditions precedent are timely fulfilled to allow disbursements. Regarding the public debt portfolio, Mr Kichere said the public debt as stood at 64.5tri- as of June 30, 2021 compared to 56.7tri- which was reported during the same period in 2019/2020, translating to an increase of 7.8tri/- which is an increment of 13.7 per cent. During the financial year 2019/2020, the debt increased by 3.6tri/- which is an increase of seven per cent, he explained. According to the CAG, the public debt is made up of domestic debt amounting to 18.9tri/- while external debt stock stands at 45.6tri/- as of 2020/2021 compared to 15tri/- and 41.2tri/-, respectively during the previous year. CAG Kichere explains in the review that the review of debt sustainability reports for public debt published by International Monetary Fund (IMF) of September 2021 and Tanzania (National Debt Sustainability Analysis) of November 2021 shows the public debt is sustainable. “The present value of public debt (external and domestic debt) to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio remained contained at around 30 per cent, which is below the 55 per cent threshold in line with the projected primary balance fiscal stance. “Likewise, the present value of public and publicly guaranteed external debt as a share of GDP remains below the 40 per cent indicative threshold throughout the projection period,” he explained. According to the CAG, the value of public and publicly guaranteed external debt as a share of GDP ranges between 18 per cent and 20 per cent. In the report however, Mr Kichere expressed concerns that the risk of distress for external debt has increased from low-risk rating in the previous reports to a moderate in the current report. “This is attributed to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the tourism sector of the country and global economy at large,” he observed. He recommended the government to improve domestic revenue collection, strengthen exports to help improve liquidity and solvency debt indicators as well as ensuring proceeds from commercial loans are invested in the projects with higher returns.