FRESH details have emerged over one of the world’s biggest rough rubies that is set for auctioning in Dubai with the Minister for Minerals, Mr Dotto Biteko saying Tanzania will not accept to be robbed of its natural resources. Mr Biteko told parliamentarians in Dodoma during a one-day seminar organised by State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) that in the course of the ongoing probe to establish the origin of the 2.8 kilogramme stone, the Dubai based company -- SJ Gold and Diamond told the government on Saturday that it had 25 more pieces of the precious rubies from the country. “When we informed them that we want to call a press conference to give the development on the issue, the company told us that it has 25 more ruby pieces, and what we equally want to find out is the decision to use Tanzania as a stepping stone in the course of their business," he noted at the seminar to Tanzania Women Parliamentarians Group (TWPG) and lawmakers under the umbrella of minerals ambassadors. According to the minister, for mining business to take place, there are key issues that ought to be considered on the source of the gemstones, among them, peace and stability, traceability of the origin of the mineral products and that in obtaining the products there was no any human rights queries. “At this time, it is too early to give the government’s stance on the matter because we cannot sit and agree that someone gives you 20 million US dollars to compromise the country’s mineral resource,” he noted. According to the minister, even as investigations are still ongoing, there could be predictable motives to use Tanzania’s profile to conducting mining businesses in the world market. The minister gave clarification when responding to queries to a section of lawmakers who had demanded a bold statement from the government regarding media reports that the 2.8 kg ruby was about to be auctioned after the end of the holy month of Ramadhan. Among the MPs who raised eyebrows over the matter were Special Seats lawmaker, Ms Salome Makamba (CHADEMA) and Geita Urban MP, Mr Constantine Kanyasu (CCM). Last Thursday, Deputy Minister for Minerals, Mr Stephen Kiruswa said in National Assembly that from Wednesday the government had initiated communications with the owner of the 2.8 kilogrammes ruby, who is now in California in the United States. He further told the House that the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism had initiated investigations to establish its origin and value, adding that the government was working with the Tanzanian Embassy in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in ensuring that the real truth on the precious product was obtained. Dr Kiruswa was responding to a supplementary question posed by Mkinga Member of Parliament (MP), Mr Dunstan Kitandula, who said that there were unconfirmed reports that the 2.8 kilogramme ruby from Tanzania was at the Dubai market and that it was expected to be auctioned off to buyers in the UAE any time soon. “How do we benefit as a country, because reports have it that it is from Tanzania?’’ queried the MP. According to the deputy minister, on April 14, 2022 the government got information that the said ruby was in the Dubai market and that it was set to be auctioned. However, he said, the government immediately launched its investigations to substantiate the truth regarding its value and origin. According to Dr Kiruswa, the 8 400-carat gem - nicknamed Burj Alhamal has been estimated to go for a minimum of 120 million US dollars (about 278bn/-). “We have initiated communications with the owner of the stone, who is residing in California and after obtaining all important documents regarding its ownership and if we establish that it is from Tanzania, we will make sure that the country benefits from its resources,’’ he noted. Media reports say the rough ruby, said to have been mined from the village of Winza in Dodoma region, Central Tanzania will make its first public appearance in the market at the Waldorf Astoria in Dubai Financial Centre (DIFC) and that it will be unveiled by the event’s guest of honour and the renowned Hollywood Actor, Tamer Hassan. “The launch of the Callisto collection in Dubai represents a groundbreaking moment for the company in its journey to becoming one of the world's leading Metal and Mineral Asset Management Firm, managing a total of 4 billion dollars in assets, ranging from exclusive gemstones and gold,” said SJ Gold and Diamond Managing Director, Mr  Patrick Pilati on Tuesday this week. Reports further details that each rough ruby, coming in diverse sizes, will be featured in the Callisto collection’s logo, tethered together with gold lines to form the collection’s very own constellation. on Saturday, the minerals minister said the government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan would ensure that no any carat of the country’s gems would be stolen from the country.