ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi reiterated his promise and the government's commitment to improve the welfare of health workers in the Isles. Dr Mwinyi made the remarks yesterday at the opening of the second Symposium on Doctors and Health Workers held at the Tourism College, Maruhubi in Zanzibar. “We recognise the great job being done by doctors and other staff in the health sector. The government has placed special attention to overcome challenges facing them,” said President Mwinyi. The meeting of health workers was organised by the Jamiiyatul Akhalaqul Islamia Institute (JAI) in collaboration with the Health Ministry to discuss and find answers to challenges facing the health sector in the country. Dr Mwinyi said after reviewing the benefits of health workers, it has been discovered that they do not conform with the 'scheme of service', while long-term serving employees were receiving low payment. "We will improve your benefits as per scheme of service,” Dr Mwinyi promised. He said the government has given priority to improve the health sector, starting with infrastructure by ensuring every district has a modern hospital. The objective, he said, is to minimise inconveniences to citizens seeking medical treatment outside their home districts. “The government is also committed to improve health service delivery and sustainable financing of health services by introducing the Health Insurance system,” he said. Dr Mwinyi added: “The government has also been increasing the budget for the Health Ministry each year, to be able to purchase medicines and medical equipment,” Dr Mwinyi said. He said that the health reforms also include training of medical doctors and nurses along with increasing the number of specialists and other required staff, while reducing the number of patients sent abroad for treatment. The president said he was very impressed with the theme of the symposium “Do good to be rewarded Good”, and said great teachings and considerations are contained in it for the doctors and nurses; that they have a responsibility to provide essential health services in a wide range of settings and remain good to the patients. He said the theme also encourages workers to not only rely on remuneration from their employers for the services they provide, but they should also have a good sense of commitment while relying on the best reward from God. President Mwinyi assured JAI that the government will continue to support them so that they can implement their programmes. The Minister for Health, Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said his ministry had been blamed because of some nurses' underperformance and being rude to patients, contrary to their profession and ethics. He explained that there is need for them to reform in order to build trust to patients. Mr Mazrui said that as the government prepares to introduce National Health Insurance, it is important for the ministry's staff, including doctors and nurses, to provide quality services. The Jamiiyatul AkhlaqulIslamia Institute (JAI) Deputy Secretary General Sheikh Khalid Rajab said the aim of the symposium was also to remind health practitioners about how best to perform their duties on the basis of the Islam religion. At the symposium, Prof Assad Mussa Assad from JAI also urged health professionals to study their religions to improve their performance, and emphasized the importance of encouraging young people to study courses related to improving health.