SIMBA gallantly placed themselves halfway to the semifinal stage of the CAF Confederation Cup following a 1-0 victory over Orlando Pirates at the Benjamin Mkapa stadium late on Sunday Simba fought bravely against tactical South Africans  and their win brings them a whiff of the tournament’s  semis. It was defender Shomari Kapombe who brought joy to the passionate Simba fans  after scoring the worthy goal for his team. Orlando Pirates fought hard to level the score, but none of their efforts paid off until the end of tense 90 minutes. It was a slim, but very crucial win for the Tanzanian envoys as they just need a draw in a return leg to sail to the tournament’s semis. At the full packed Benjamin Mkapa stadium, Simba fans added colours to the victory  as they wholeheartedly supported their team and their support paid off handsomely. Among the notable figures during the match was the Vice-Chairman of ruling CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana. The positive response from Simba fans filled the entire Mkapa stadium and boosted the players' morale to secure a win. The South African envoys in the Confederation Cup made an eighth-minute attempt through Kwane Peprah, who fired a fierce shot, but it went wide. Peprah got another chance out of the box, made a good turn, but his shot was easily saved by Simba goalie, Aishi Manula. Pape Ousmane Sakho was impressive on the day as he showed great ability with the ball and thus giving Orlando Pirates defenders  hard time. Simba made a serious attempt in the 44th minute through Bernard Morrison, whose powerful strike was saved by Orlando Pirates keeper Richard Ofori. The first half ended in a barren draw. Simba Head Coach Pablo Franco made a few changes in the second half, taking to the bench Peter Banda and Taddeo Lwanga and brought in Kibu Dennis and Larry Bwalya. These changes added steam to the attacking line. In the 57th minute, Simba came close to score  through Morrison, who completed Bwalya's corner kick with a fine header. Morrison attempted to break through Orlando Pirates defence, but their skipper Happy Jele fouled him in the box  and that led to the penalty. Simba converted the spot-kick into the 68th minute through Shomari Kapombe. Pirates fought hard to level the score in the last twenty minutes, but Simba's solid defence led by Mohammed Hussein, Henoc Inonga and Pascal Wawa kept Simba safe.