VICE-President Dr Philip Mpango has instructed the 2022 Uhuru torch runners to ensure value for money on all projects lined up for launching during the race. He said no substandard projects should be launched by this year’s race as the government gears towards improving provision of social services across the country. Dr Mpango made the instructions on Saturday at Sabasaba grounds in Njombe region during an event to launch the 2022 Uhuru torch that will be raced in all 31-Mainland and Isles regions, with the climax set for October 14 in Kagera region. “Make sure there is value for money in all the projects that have been lined up for the launch, substandard projects shouldn’t be inaugurated,” he insisted. According to him, the race runners should file a report on all projects that won’t be launched for investigation that will pave the way for proper actions on those who will be implicated. He also asked the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to finalise investigation on 52 projects which were not launched in last year’s race as instructed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. He also used the platform to insist on the need for collaborative efforts from members of the public and government institutions in fighting corruption. “It’s a responsibility of all Tanzanians to take part in the war against corruption, everyone should abstain from asking for or taking bribes” he said, insisting that the government will continue taking strict measures on those who will be involved in corruption practices. The Vice-President also used the occasion to remind Tanzanians on the importance of taking measures against spread of HIV/ Aids. According to him, despite the improvement that has been recorded in curbing spread of HIV/ Aids, there is still work to be done especially in the southern highlands regions of Njombe, Iringa and Mbeya. He said a survey conducted in 2016/17 shows that Njombe topped the list of regions with a high rate of HIV/Aids cases with 11.4 per cent, followed by Iringa (11.3 per cent) and Mbeya (9.3 per cent). Also statistics show that new cases of HIV/Aids dropped to 68,000 in 2020 from 110,000 cases recorded in 2010. “HIV/aids transmission from mother to baby dropped from 18 per cent in 2010 to 7 per cent in the year 2020,” he said, calling for collaborative efforts in lowering the transition rate. Dr Mpango also reminded Tanzanians to take preventive measures against malaria and stunting for the country to maintain its workforce. Going forward, he also insisted on the government’s bold move to curb drug abuse, instructing the Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) and other organs to intensify patrol at the border posts. Earlier, the Minister of State, Prime, Minister’s Office, Labour, Youth and People with Disability, Prof Joyce Ndalichako said the Uhuru torch race for this year will also be used to remind Tanzanians to participate in the Population and Housing Census to be held in August this year. Data collected from the count will help the government to obtain basic information needed to implement the Development Vision 2025 initiative as well as other health and social reforms.