PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed Tanzania International Container Terminal Services (TICTS) to improve its operations, especially delays in handling cargo at Dar es Salaam Port. The Premier said the company should work professionally and go through its performance contract in order to ensure that it provides right services to customers served at the Dar Port. Majaliwa issued the directives on Friday in Dar es Salaam during his meeting with leaders of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and TICTS. He also inspected the performance of the Dar Port as per directives issued by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. "We want good feedback from our customers, this port is an engine of our economy, we will not hesitate to review the TICTS contract, there are several investors with interest to invest in this area, we cannot tolerate such delays in cargo handling," he stressed. On his part, Minister for Works and Transport Prof Makame Mbarawa said that his ministry will continue to oversee TPA operations especially on transit cargo. "This port is vital for our economies; we will make sure all idle areas are used for cargo storage in order to reduce congestion. TPA Director General, Eric Hamissi said that the authority has continued to make improvements at the port in order to increase efficiency, including procuring new equipment, among others seven Reach Stracker and two Folk Lifts with a capacity of 16 tonnes. Last month during the inauguration of TPA board of directors, Prof Mbarawa tasked it to work on ‘unbearable’ delays in handling containerised cargo vessels by Tanzania International Container Terminal Services (TICTS). The vividly irritated minister used most of his address to the new board showing his dissatisfaction with the performance of TICTS which has been contracted by the TPA as one of the institutions to handle cargo at the Dar es Salaam Port. “TPA contributes about 37 per cent of the revenues collected by the Tanzania Revenues Authority (TRA). We have made appointments of the new members of the board with huge trust that you are going to raise the revenues. “The number of ships at the port has increased, but they wait for so long at the Outer Anchorage before docking at the TICTS’s berths for offloading cargo,” Prof Mbarawa stated. He said TICTS handles about 80 per cent of container ships coming to Dar es Salaam Port, and while berths at the TICTS are overwhelmed, those operated by the TPA remain idle. “People out there unknowingly cast blame on TPA, they don’t know that it is TICTS’s fault,” Prof Mbarawa stated. Explaining the magnitude of the problem, the minister said a report that he received showed that container ships destined for TICTS’s berths spend over 20 days waiting while at the outer anchorage.