GEITA Regional Commissioner, Rosemary Senyamule has directed public offices in the region to embrace transparency in spending of funds on development projects. MsSenyamule stressed that citizens have a right to know about the amount of money given for projects and how much has been spent. She made the statement here in the region during her four-day official tour to inspect various development projects implemented under government funds amounting to 2.7bn/-. The projects she visited included the construction of an emergency building, mortuary, as well as male, female and neonatal wards at Katoro town. "When the government brings in the region funds for implementation of any projects, citizens have a right to know its amount and the number of projects to be implemented with particular funds,” she explained. She told the government officials to stop operating without informing the public about revenues and expenditure. "If you don't inform the public and misuse the funds, you will be in trouble,” she said, urging the residents to report to her office those are who found going against the government’s directives on how to use those funds. Meanwhile, the RC was not happy with delaysin the construction of the Katoro Modern market. The project was supposed to be completed ina period of six months but it is now three years and yet to be completed. He ordered the Geita District Council Executive Director John Wangaand other government officials to ensure that construction of the market is completed by July this year. For his part,Geita District Commissioner,Wilson Shimo praised President SamiaSuluhu Hassan for endorsing enough funds for the district to implement development projects in health, education sectors and infrastructures. MrShimo urged government leaders and experts to conduct close supervision of government projects in their areas so they could be completed on time and maintain value for money. For his part, MrWanga assured the Regional Commissioner that the directives she issued will be implemented on time.