THE peaceful Tanzania we have today is a result of ideas and philosophy of the founding father of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who led the county between 1962 and 1985. If he was alive, Mwalimu Nyerere who was the first President of Tanganyika and later on Tanzania would have been knocking a decade today, from the date he was born. Under his administration, a lot of reforms were introduced for future prosperity of the nation. Having led the country for 23 years, the President surprised the nation after announcing his decision to voluntarily step down from office, paving the way for another one to take over the responsibilities. His decision is considered a major foundation on establishment of smooth transition of power at a time where most African Countries were faced by coup d'état for leaders who have overstayed in power. He was then replaced by Ali Hassan Mwinyi who became the president of the second phase administration from 1985 to 1995 whereas during his tenure, Tanzania adopted a multi-party system that led to the first multiparty election held in 1995. The 1995 election saw Benjamin Mkapa of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) being elected the President for the administration of third phase. In respect to the constitution of Tanzania that allows a person to hold a country’s top office for a period not exceeding ten years, MrMkapa after completed his tenure on the office, left the powers to JakayaKikwete. Same to what Mkapa did, MrKikwete after completed his two terms in 2015, left the office to Dr John Magufuli who won the 2015 general election. DrMagufuli was expected to complete his two terms of five years each in 2025, however he could make it as he passed on in March 2021, leaving a seat to President SamiaSuluhu Hassan who was the Vice President from late 2015 to March 2021. Speaking to the Daily News some analysts and political commentators suggested on the need for the government to continue maintain the legacy that has been left for the country. Mr Alex Nyoni, a lawyer based in  Ruvuma region suggested on the need for the government and all Tanzanians to cherish the foundation that Nyerere shad set for the country. “These smooth transitions of power are the result of crucial role of Mwalimu Nyerere, the first President of Tanzania. In deed he is a father of the nation,” said He noted that, this, to large extent contributed in making Tanzania a peaceful and democratic country in Africa whereas there is a smooth transition of power through general elections being held every five years. “Mwalimu Nyerere left is a great legacy on country’s democratic space, Tanzania has remained a good example to among other countries,” he added in views that were second by the Ms Emilia Zabron human right activist based in Morogoro. The duo is of views that without his decision, Tanzania’s democratic and political space would probably not be as smooth as it is right now. Ms Emilia referred Mwalimu Nyerere as one of leaders who tirelessly championed for the reestablishment of multiparty democracy in the country. Speaking to recently during a symposium held to mark 100 years of Nyerere’s Birthday, a veteran politician Stephen Wasira also urged Tanzanians to honor Mwalimu Nyerere by maintaining peace, unity and harmony. “As he was in favor of national unity, MwlNyerere was so bitter  on all  kind of discriminations based on  color, tribes, religious or any status,  we have to honor this legacy  that was left for us,” noted MrWassira. Same remarks were issued by preidnetSamia during her speech, describing Nyerere as a true Africanists who dedicated his efforts in building national peace, unity and harmony. “During his lifetime, MwlNyerere taught Tanzanians on the importance of patriotism and building national peace, unity and harmony for sustainable development,” said President Samia. According to her, the vision and philosophy of MwlNyerere are still alive as the government under all phases continued to work on issues that were initiated in the first phase administration. “One of the legacies that Nyerere left for the country was the promotion of equality for all regardless of colour, tribes, and religious beliefs,” she said. As part of efforts to build national unity, the late Nyerere also emphasized on use of Swahili language that is now an official language in the African Union (AU), East African Community (EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC). “Moreover, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has settled on 7th July to celebrate the Kiswahili language, all these are the results of foundations laid by President Nyerere,” she emphasized.