SIMBA’S Head Coach Franco Pablo believes that his charges have what it takes to defeat South Africa’s Orlando Pirates today and proceed in the CAF Confederation Cup’s semifinals. Simba host Orlando Pirates at Benjamin Mkapa’s full capacity of 60,000-seater Stadium in Dar es Salaam. This will be the first head to head meeting between the two clubs. And to ensure that the road to semis is smooth, Pablo says winning at a home ground is very important and stays upbeat to clear away return leg hurdle at Orlando Stadium on April 24th. “We need to be very aggressive in our tomorrow’s match and we have clear chances to win despite having a tough match opponent,” the coach said. “We need to win our home tie with a big margin and clear the way for our away game,” he added. In retrospect, Simba’s roving defender, Shomari Kapombe said that they have prepared for the home victory despite expecting to face a stiff opposition from their opponents. Meddie Kagere, Simba’s lethal striker had it that they have a home ground advantage to win the tie since they expect much support from an all- time supporting fans. The home ground advantage most often favours Simba and gave victories in most of their continental assignments including a 1-0 win over Al-Ahly of Egypt in the group stage of the Champions League last season. Orlando Pirates’ Manager, Mandla Ncikazi was quoted as saying that his club will, despite being away, keep their traditional strong performance in continental tournament citing the finals of Champions league in 2013. The match will be brightened by VAR(Video Assistant Referee) which comes to Tanzania for the first time. Towards the today’s match Simba have ruled out centre-back Joash Onyango and midfielder Sadio Kanoute, according to the club’s Media and Communications Manager, Ahmed Ally who, however, said their positions will be filled perfectly. "Indeed, the duo will miss the game and this is a big blow to us but we have other quality players who fit in the set up. "For instance, Pascal Wawa will be the right candidate to replace Onyango as he has vast experience in CAF Interclub games and for Kanoute, we have Jonas Mkude, Mzamiru Yassin and even Thaddeo Lwanga who can offer quality services for the benefit of the club," he said. Providing a thorough assessment of the team ahead of the game, Ally noted that atmosphere in the camp among players and technical bench is great and that they are all looking forward to stamp victory before the away match. "It should be known that this is not the first time for us to play in the quarter-finals as such; if our journey ends here, it will be a big upset for the entire club that is why we surely need to qualify and make it into the last four," he said.