SIMBA are upbeat to stamp a victory against US Gendarmerie as they host them in a decisive CAF Confederation Cup group D match at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam tonight. Pegged for a kick off at 22:00, the encounter will be judge who deserves a ticket to play in the competition’s quarters hence, a tough and highly competitive game is anticipated tonight. Playing at home in front of thousands of their supporters, Simba have a big advantage to sail through as good home ground records favour them. This reality gives them momentum to believe that at the sound of the final whistle, they are the ones set to spend longer time on the pitch celebrating with their fans for successfully completing the mission. However, just like Simba, USGN have not won away in the group stage campaign hence they will be targeting to do that in the country and here is when the country’s solo envoys should be cautious. Recently, a former Simba player George Masatu (pictured) encouraged all Tanzanians to pray for Simba for them to step into the last eight of the competition in order to keep flying high national colours. “I can say we have a 65 per cent chance of reaching into the quarter-finals but they should not relax just because their first game ended in a draw. “I think players should have a mindset that they lost the previous game against them and at the same time play hard to ensure that they pick maximum three points which will give them a green light of marching forward,” he said. However, Simba have assured their fans of enough security and availability of transport services until midnight ahead of their tomorrow’s decisive CAF Confederation Cup match. For the first time, the Reds will host a CAF Interclub game at 22:00 which is likely a new experience to them, but basing on the importance of the match, there is no way other than using all weapons to accomplish the mission. The country’s solo envoys just need a win to see the quarterfinals which is lately their number one priority. “Basing on the intensity of the match, police have already assured us that they will provide maximum security especially outside the stadium to ensure that people arrive and leave the venue safely. “Security will be beefed up after the match because it is the time when people come out in big number at once and all these will be done to protect people who will descend at the venue for the big match,” said the club’s Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally. He added that there is no way Simba will tolerate their fans to leave the stadium with any sort of upset.