AT least 5,000 people are expected to witness the country’s maiden premiering of Royal Tour feature film in Arusha, best known as Safari capital of Tanzania, on Thursday (April 27, 2022). This comes as preparations for the high-profile event continue to gather pace, with President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s arrival tomorrow. The Arusha International Conference Center (AICC) was a beehive of activity with the organisers, including the Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC) John Mongella, running up and down to ensure that everything goes to plan for the much-awaited Royal Tour’s screening. Revered for hosting high-profile meetings, the AICC was literary turned into a museum murals of wild animals and other natural attractions mounted on the walls of the 1,500-seater Simba Hall. Outside the hall, workers were busy mounting and fixing marquee tents, giant LED screens which were placed on the otherwise parking lot at AICC. The launch of the documentary will however come with its fair share of its disruptions, with major roads forced to be closed down temporarily to allow a free flow of traffic to access the premises. “This is a deliberate arrangement to allow as many people to access AICC and have their seats in time ready to enjoy the feature film,” clarified Mr Mongella. Some of the roads that will be affected by the move include the Goliondoi stretch which leads to AICC, and the famous Azimio la Arusha Monument located at the central business district. “With no traffic, Arusha residents will easily walk into the AICC premises to watch the film,” assured the regional commissioner. Those driving to the AICC will tomorrow be compelled to park the vehicles at a designated parking lot at the Mt Meru Hotel, according to Mr Mongella. He revealed that there will be special minibuses to shuttle residents to and from the hotel. Mr Mongella said tour operators and other tourism stakeholders were in upbeat mood, gleefully waiting for the launch of the high-profile documentary which showcases Tanzania as a tourist destination and the many investment opportunities that are in the East African nation. The regional commissioner equally challenged the tourism stakeholders and the business community to make the most of the regional launch of the feature film, which also showcases the country’s rich cultural and wildlife heritage. He also urged Arusha residents to turn in their numbers to welcome the president at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). Arusha Police Commander Justin Masejo on his part, said security will be heightened during the screening of the much awaited documentary. The Tanzania Royal Tour was firstly premiered on April 18th this year in New York City in United States, followed by the largest city which lies in a basin in Southern California (Los Angeles) on April 21st this year. It is expected to be premiered in Arusha today and the film will also be premiering in Zanzibar on May 7th this year followed by Dar es Salaam a day later. Tanzania is the home of the number one Safari destination in the World and houses four of the most coveted adventure destinations on earth: the Serengeti, Mount Kilimanjaro, Zanzibar, and Ngorongoro Crater. In real terms, tourism in Tanzania creates 1.3 million jobs, and generates 2.6 billion US dollars annually, equivalent to 18 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 