ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi has said that in order to achieve development goals, all factors that hold back economic growth, including theft, corruption and embezzlement of public funds must be controlled. President Mwinyi highlighted this yesterday in Pemba during a meeting with members of the ruling party CCM Elders’ Council in Chakechake Town, South Pemba Region. “We must fight the hitches so as to achieve our development goals,” Dr Mwinyi said. He said the ongoing war against graft and all other misconducts in public offices aims to clear the way to implement development programmes, improve service delivery and fulfill expectations of the electorate as promised during the General Election campaign. Dr Mwinyi said that during the campaign the ruling party, CCM, promised to improve several infrastructural developments and stressed the need to take serious action against the few dishonest and corrupt leaders and executives trying to delay the government from achieving the intended goals. “Normally, people are reluctant to accept changes especially those which may affect their income, but it should be noted that the government is taking steps to ensure the majority benefit from the available resources and the collected revenue,” the Isles leader insisted. President Mwinyi stressed that despite the emerging economic challenges, the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar is progressing well in implementing the development projects including provision of water, electricity, roads improvement, health and education infrastructure. Dr Mwinyi emphasized that the goal is to make sure his administration fulfills the promises made during the campaign. This is why, Dr Mwinyi said, he has been taking serious actions against embezzlers of public funds, as well as those who do not match his speed of performance, to achieve the development goals. He said that the government’s main objective is to continue building unity, peace and solidarity to bring about sustainable development in the country. In addition, Dr Mwinyi explained steps being taken by the government to control inflation linked to global economic challenges, including reducing tax on various commodities to make prices stable. President Mwinyi emphasized the need to ensure that the Elders’ Council performs its duties properly and he promised to continue fully cooperating with the council due to its importance in building a strong party. President Mwinyi thanked the council and congratulated them for continuing to nurture CCM to remain a strong party, while also urging CCM members to contest in the upcoming inter party elections. Dr Mwinyi also used the meeting to encourage people to participate in the National Population and Housing Census slated for August 23rd 2022. Earlier, in their statement read by the Secretary of the Elders Council, Abdalla Yussuf Ali stated that their role, among other responsibilities, is to implement the party policies and government directives for a better Zanzibar. Mr Ali said that they recently conducted public awareness to elders about the importance of this year’s National Population and Housing Census, as well as the importance of maintaining peace and stability in the country.