TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute, Kibaha centre (TARI Kibaha) in collaboration with Japan International  Cooperation Agency (JICA) has introduced new sweet potato varieties and adopted cultivation methods from Japan that will help local farmers to produce high-value crops. The sweet potatoes’ saccharification technology will also add value for processors and is expected to increase farmers’ income. According to a statement issued by the JICA representative, Ms Ridda Dally, said the two new sweet potato varieties are suitable for mid-latitude and warm semi-arid agroecology, after all required verification procedures have been conducted. According to her, TARI Kibaha participated in the official introduction and field survey evaluation of the five elite sweet potatoes varieties from Japan, to wit, Tamayutaka, Koganesengan, Annouimo, Izumi 13 and Taihaku. These varieties were in advance yield trials for seasons and the best performing varieties were the Tamayutaka and the Koganesengan. “The two varieties were proposed for evaluation in National Performance Trials (NPT) by the Tanzania Official Seed Certification Institute (TOSCI) and as a result, the two varieties Tamayutaka (TARI SP7) and Koganesesengan (TARI SP8) are officially released by Variety Release Committee under TOSCI for multiplication and use by the public,” says part of the statement. Moreover, the verification process was supported by JICA in collaboration with the two Japanese companies, which are Terunuma Co., Limited (former company name: Terunuma Katsuichi Shoten Co., Limited) from Japan, and the Matoborwa Co. Ltd. based in Dodoma, through JICA’s survey scheme “Verification Survey with the Private Sector for Disseminating Japanese Technologies” which aim at demonstrating Japanese technologies’ effectiveness in improving specific development challenges. A statement said that the three years JICA survey project from 2017 to 2020 has verified the effectiveness of the Japanese sweet potato varieties, the efficient cultivation techniques for sweet potato production, and the saccharification methodologies of sweet potatoes through storage.  All of those can contribute to increasing and stabilizing farmers’ income, building new food processing businesses, and creating employment in Tanzania. The target area of the said survey was Dodoma, and its main beneficiaries were sweet potato farmers and processors.