TANZANIA Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) has prepared a new communication strategic plan, aiming at processing and disseminating science and technology information accurately to the stakeholders in the country. COSTECH has also called on stakeholders and other users of research and innovations information to use the correct information in their development plans and decisions making. The call was made recently by the COSTECH Manager of Publication and Documentation of, Dr Bunini Manyilizu during the workshop on preparing guide implementation of the Communication Strategy held at the Teachers College (MOTCO) in Morogoro. “It was imperative for stakeholders and other users of research and innovation to use information from appropriate sources for sustainable development,” Dr Manyilizu insisted. He said that during the workshop, the task force formed discussed the guidelines and came up with a draft that will be linked to the communication plan, which has been prepared for a period of three years and is expected to be implemented from 2023 to 2026. More so, Dr Manyilizu has urged citizens and various communication stakeholders to monitor electronic information from identifiable sources of science and technology. For his part, the COSTECH Public Relations Officer Mr Faisal Abdul said that through the guideline, the Commission will be able to be close to various significant stakeholders like the media. “This move will be significant in helping the institution reach the intended goals of storing, processing and disseminating the science and technology, as well as innovation information countrywide,” he said. COSTECH was established by the Act of Parliament No. 7 of 1986 as the successor to the Tanzania National Scientific Research Council (UTAFITI) as a parastatal organization with the responsibility of coordinating and promoting research and technology development activities in the country. It is the chief advisor to the government on all matters pertaining to science and technology and their application to the socio-economic development of the country and is under the ministry responsible for science and technology Prof Adolf Mkenda. Among principal roles and responsibilities of the Commission includes acquiring, storing and disseminating scientific and technical information, and may, for that purpose hold or sponsor conferences, symposia, meetings, seminars or workshops, or publish any newspaper, journal or periodical or do any other act or thing designed to promote interest in science, technology and innovation in the country.