THE Parliamentary Standing Committee on Constitution and Legal Affairs recommends that the government adopts a long-term strategic plan for implementing all of its development projects, to ensure that they are completed on schedule. The plan should, among other things, describe each project and the time frame in which it is expected to be completed, as well as indicate how completed projects will be maintained and a routine maintenance plan. Dr Joseph Mhagama, the Committee’s Chairman, offered the advice in Dodoma on Wednesday while presenting a report on the Prime Minister’s Office budget implementation for 2021-2022 and the committee's advice on the budget estimates for 2022-2023. According to him, the committee also recommends the government to improve revenue collection efficiency and set collection goals that reflect capabilities as well as the realities of income sources. “The Committee noticed that just 15 per cent of the revenue targeted by the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliament, and Coordination) had been collected by February 28, 2022,” he said. He added, “The government should design a strategic collection plan that allows it to prepare a monthly collection report and assess revenue collection capacity.” Dr Mhagama further said the committee also found that just 42.23 per cent of external funds and 59.38 per cent of domestic monies allocated for development initiatives in the Prime Minister’s office were available. The committee suggested the government to ensure that development and other expenditures are disbursed on schedule so that its institutions and agencies may successfully carry out their tasks. Furthermore, the government should place a greater emphasis on utilising local resources when conducting various development projects throughout the country. On funds allocated for staff training, he said that can help promote professionalism, increase efficiency and motivation of staff if the funds are disbursed and used appropriately. “The government should use training funds and other resources to provide training to employees locally and globally so that they can do their tasks more efficiently,” he said. With regard to the National Skills Development Programme, Dr Mhagama said the government should ensure that the skills acquired in the greenhouse and apprenticeships are not lost. In addition, he said the government should consider the need to provide building materials and raw materials to young people participating in the programme so that young people can afford the necessary costs such as building affordable housing blocks.