MORE than 12,000 underprivileged pregnant women will be annually benefiting from free maternal health care services, especially delivery services at the newly built maternal building at the Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT). Pending its official launching in June this year, the CCBRT  plans to conduct fundraising to raise USD 2 million (about 4.6bn/-) for meeting its operations, including human resources costs and facilities. Even before its launching, the facility has since January this year started providing services, and so far it served 37 disadvantaged women to deliver safely. According to CCBRT Chief Executive Officer, Ms Brenda Msangi, the priority would be given to the deprived women with risky pregnancy such as those suffering from fistula, women with disabilities and underage pregnant girls. Speaking at a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Ms Msangi noted that the fundraising is slated on May 7, this year, at the Dar es Salaam’s Serena Hotel, urging various stakeholders to support the initiative to reduce number of maternal deaths. So far, the Coca-Cola Kwanza Ltd and the Serena Hotel have expressed commitment to contribute to the fundraising in supporting the initiative. “The new maternal department will be of substantial help to poor expectant mothers and those with disabilities,” she said, but quickly elaborated that social welfare unit would be established at the facility for screening those who deserve to get free services. She said the facility would perform a role as referral hospital, receiving referrals from different health centres in the city of Dar es Salaam, thus relieving the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) from handling huge number of referrals of complicated maternal cases. She said the move was part of CCBRT’s continued support to the government to reduce maternal deaths. In 2010, the CCBRT in collaboration with a Dar es Salaam regional team of health experts from all its five councils started offering maternal health services in the region. Since then, it managed to reach out to health centres and 23 hospitals in the region. “Currently, these health centres have medical devices and improvements have been made on infrastructures to up performance and assure safe maternal services,” she said. Mr Victor Byemelwa, sustainability and communications specialist for the Coca-Cola Kwanza, said they decided to support the efforts for the welfare of expectant mothers, calling upon other stakeholders to join efforts.