THE Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Prof Joyce Ndalichako and Minister of State in President's Office (Public Service and Good Governance), Ms Jenista Mhagama said they have begun implementing President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s directives to assess the performance of all civil servants. The Head of State directed the respective ministries to use Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in assessing the performance of civil servants in order to strengthen accountability and provision of better services. Speaking  in Dodoma  during a  meeting with  leaders of the workers unions  on Saturday, the ministers  said the government  will continue to  make improvement in the sectors  and cross cutting  issues in order to  build  ICT Systems. Prof Ndalichako said in addition to the government efforts in assessing the performance of civil servants, President Samia directed the involvement of workers' unions as a link between employers and employees in facilitating workers to have their rights and fulfill their responsibilities. She said her office continues to implement the President's directives after completing the installation of electronic system that enables issuance of work permits to foreigners. "This system has reduced the time for working on permits applications from 14 to seven days ... the system has also strengthened transparency and accountability." On her part, Minister Mhagama said her office has implemented the President's directives by making changes in the Public Employees Management Information System (PEPMIS) and Public Institutions Performance Management Information System (PIPMIS). She added the implementation of the President’s  directives is to ensure that  her vision and mission are accomplished as she prefers to have  civil servants who work  with integrity, accountability, professionalism, and patriotism. Mhagama  called upon  leaders of the workers union  to  protect rights and welfare of the  workers  and supervise them well  so that  they can work hard  with high creativity.