YOUNG Africans Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi described their 2-1 win over Azam as a 'deserved victory' saying his charges gave it all to produce the triumph despite the game being difficult. The encouraging results drove Yanga to 51 points at the summit of the table as they stretched unbeaten run of the season run to 19 games with their primary target of clinching the championship remaining unchanged. They roared from a goal down after Azam striker Rodgers Kola put them ahead with a classy goal in the 10th minute of the first half, but the visitors fought back to level the deficit in the 17th minute via a spot kick taken by Djuma Shaban. At 1-1, the game balanced and each team was making several threatening attempts, but the scoreboard remained unchanged until the end of the first half. In the second half, the hunt for maximum three points escalated as supporters were at the edge of their seats eagerly waiting to see when the second goal could be converted. Yanga were compelled to make a fruitful tactical switch when they introduced Heritier Makambo to partner with the lethal striker Fiston Mayele a move which helped them to disorganise Azam defence. In the 78th minute, Mayele did what he knows best after netting his 11th goal of the campaign to enable his side stamp a successive win over the Ice Cream Makers this term. "First of all, I would like to hail my players for the massive work rate they put in to source the important win. It was a deserved win for us and we played good football. Azam were also a tough opponents but we are happy with the stamped results," said Nabi. Again, Nabi seized the opportunity to inform the public that in two years’ time, Tanzanians will be proud of striker Crispin Ngushi saying he is going to be among the top domestic strikers in the country. His midfielder Salum Abubakar 'Sure Boy' said the win signifies that they are getting closer to claim the league title even though the marathon is far from over. "I believe that to be a champion, you need to win many games and this is what we are doing. The chase for the title is not yet over but we are slowly nearing it. Azam played good football, but we prepared better than them," said the former Azam player. On his part, Azam Head Coach Abdihamid Moallin conceded the defeat saying their opponents Yanga had a good game even though 'somebody' decided the outcome of the match. "I am not sure about the penalty they were given and I have to go back to look at it. We knew that facing them will be a tough game and I want to congratulate my players for their massive fight even though we lost in the end," he said. The defeat saw Azam plastered on the third place with 28 points from 19 games as they slowly give up the splint for the championship at the end of the season.