PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Thursday officiated premiering of the Royal Tour documentary in Los Angeles, California, with scores of people who attended the event expressing their enthusiasm to visit Tanzania’s attractions. The premiering of the programme in Los Angeles was the second following the same held in New York on Monday this week. The film, which has been starred by the Head of State herself, is expected to bring in economic returns after promoting the country’s attractions in tourism sector. It has so far earned popularity around the globe, with Tanzanians eagerly waiting it being premiered in the country. According to the issued timetable, the premiering of the programme will be done in Arusha on April 28 and later on in Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam. Some of people who attended the Los Angeles Royal Tour premiering said the programme has inspired them to visit Tanzania to witness the richness of tourist attractions. One of the participants, Ms Sarah Dondysh, said she was excited about the Royal Tour film and she wishes to be in Tanzania visiting those tourists attractions portrayed in the film. “This documentary makes me feel like going to Tanzania even this night,” said Ms Dondysh. She also congratulated the director of the film, Mr Peter Greenberg, for doing a wonderful job of showing different sides of Tanzania and its attractions to the world, something that has motivated them to be in Tanzania. Mr Ronald Fenty, film industry stakeholder in US, said he has been to Tanzania for times. “I have been there (Tanzania) last year and I am going back in September this year. My favourite place is Zanzibar. I really enjoy going there,” said Mr Fenty who is a father of Rihanna, a popular American singer, actress and fashion designer. Another American citizen, whose name could not immediately be identified from the video clip posted yesterday, also said the film shows the beauty and one of the most amazing places in the world to visit. He insisted that he was eager to travel to Tanzania to explore and see what the Royal Tour documentary has portrayed. “I have never been to Tanzania before and it was among the countries I want to travel to, but through this documentary I really wish to be in Tanzania,” he spoke. On his side, Tanzania Diaspora, Mr Mike Mhagama, said he was optimistic that the filming of the Royal Tour will increase the number of tourists coming to Tanzania, something which will boost the country’s economy and increase the number of employment opportunities, particularly for youths. In another development, while in US, President Samia is expected to participate in a discussion on the importance of investing in people and supporting human capital development for the people of Tanzania and around the world. In the discussion, she would be along with Mr David Malpass, President of the World Bank Group.