AS Wananchi celebrate 100 years of birth of Tanzania’s founding Father and first President Mwalimu Nyerere, a section of world leaders and diplomats took to social media platforms to commemorate the true Pan-Africanist. Ambassador of the People's Republic of China to the United Republic of Tanzania Chen Mingjian has expressed Mwalimu Nyerere as a great immortal and founder of Sino-Tanzanian friendship. Using her verified twitter handle 陈明健@ChenMingjian_CN, the diplomat Chen Mingjian tweeted: “On #Nyerere’s birthday centennial, we commemorate the great immortal, founder of Sino-Tanzanian friendship. “President Julius Nyerere & other leaders of the older generation of two countries have forged friendly relations.” Celebrating Mwalimu Nyerere’s centennial, US Ambassador to Tanzania Donald Wright has posted on social media, describing Nyerere as a “fighter for the freedom of his people” and “father of Ujamaa political philosophy.” He used verified US Embassy’s Twitter handle @usembassytz, the Diplomat said:  "In this, the centennial of Julius Nyerere’s birth, I join with all Tanzanians and people around the world in paying tribute to Nyerere’s leadership during a lifetime spent in the public eye." “#13Abril  #Nyerere100 | 100 years since the birth of the Tanzanian master Julius Kambarage Nyerere. Africanist, fighter for the freedom of his people, father of the Ujamaa political philosophy. His ideals continue to light our way to freedom.” European Union (EU) IN Tanzania joined Tanzania in celebrating Mwalimu’s remarkable fight to ensure the rights and freedoms of individuals. Official Twitter account representing the European Union Delegation to Tanzania and the EAC posted: “100 years ago today a visionary leader was born - Mwl Julius K. Nyerere! On this centennial of #Nyerere’s birth the #EU wishes to join Tanzanians in celebrating his remarkable fight to ensure the rights and freedoms of individuals, of his nation TZ and all #Africa #Nyerere100.” India’s Prime Minister Narenda Modi has also joined other World’s leaders to remember Mwalimu Nyerere. The PM said Nyerere’s life and work remain a constant inspiration for “all of us” and added: “The principles of unity and equality that he advocated are as relevant today as ever. My tributes to the great leader and friend of India on his 100th birth anniversary.”  