TANZANIAN promising golfer Garv Chadha put up an impressive performance to finish overall runner up in the NCBA 2022 Serena Junior Championship at the par-72 Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort & Spa, in Uganda over the weekend. Chadha, one of the national junior team’s top players, had to fight hard to return an aggregate 156 gross of the 36-hole showdown to finish two shots off the pace tying at second place with Ugandan Reagan Akena. The Tanzania youth returned the best score of 76 gross in the boys 15-18 year category in the opening round on Saturday. The final round saw him sinking 80 gross to finish second, with a two-shot deficit to the champion, Nsuba Godfrey, who also serves as the Uganda national junior team captain. The winner charged at the final round to return an aggregate 154 (79, 75), while Reagan settled at the second place tie with 79 and 77. Chadha from Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) put himself in a good place to finish top in his group during the Easter Sunday final round as he led the Uganda national team pair of Akena and Nsubuga by three strokes. The youth continues to shine after he was recently crowned the double title Golfer of the Year 2020 and Match Play 2021 Champion at AGC. He said after the opening round that it was a bit challenging due to wet conditions in the morning. “The opening day was quite tough, especially in the morning…we had winds and rain; it was hard to keep everything under control. Otherwise, I enjoyed the round, it was very nice,” Chadha said. Adding: “It’s my first time in Uganda and it’s been an amazing experience playing with different players from various countries. I have learnt new cultures.” Other Tanzanian players who participated in the competition and did well in their categories were Aliabbas Kermalli who carded  aggregate 162  strokes and Aayush Hiten Nathwani who grossed 167 to finish 4th and 6th, while Vivek Gohil had 194 aggregate score. The Serena Junior Championship which is held in partnership with US Kids Golf and Golf for Kids Kenya is a qualifier for the Italian Venice Open which will be held on August 18th this year. The Serena event brought together over 94 boys and girls from around the globe who competed in different categories including 18-15, 13-14, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7 and Under 6. 