THE completion of the African Union Post Office (PAPU) headquarters building in Arusha is expected to benefit the people and various stakeholders in the city, as the building's use will extend beyond the Union offices. Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority's (TCRA) Board Chairman Dr Jones Kilimbe stated that the building will also be used for cross-cutting businesses spanning from social-economic to tourism. More so, he said other offices that will be accommodated are public service offices including TCRA and Tanzania Posts Corporation zonal offices among others. He was speaking recently in Arusha shortly after leading a delegation of the TCRA Board of Directors and Management, to inspect the progress of the construction of the 17-storey building, which will cost more than 30bn/-. “We are moving in tandem with the construction work of this spectacular building, so that we meet at a point where we can all realise positive outcome that we anticipate as far as this project is concerned,” insisted Kilimbe. The construction and completion of the mega building will realise the dreams of Tanzania's late Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, whose government pioneered the idea of constructing PAPU Headquarters in Tanzania. “Very few institutions are fortunate to have such things as this; that is, having their offices built in a setting of this likeness, with such a large, decorous, and distinguished building; this building is very important to our economy and PAPU as a whole, and now we are proving to regional stakeholders that Tanzania deserved to host PAPU Headquarter offices, in contrast to comments from some people who thought they would suggest shifting the Headquarter offices to another location,” insisted Killimbe. Commenting on the possibility of other regional and international communication institutions considering establishing their headquarters or regional offices in Tanzania, he predicted that the issue would be possible after the completion of the building because it will attract other TCRA regional and international stakeholders to consider establishing their bureau offices in Tanzania as it fits from their end. The Director General of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) explained that the visit was organised so that the TCRA Board of Directors could satisfy itself with the progress of the project considering the fact that it is the Board that governs TCRA in its day to day performance. He also mentioned that the building will house offices of the Tanzania Postal Corporation and TCRA Northern Zone Offices in addition to PAPU offices, with the goal of bringing communication stakeholders closer together and eliminating public inconveniences when providing communication services. Regarding the ongoing postcodes and residential addresses project the Director General stressed that the exercise is very important as it will completely eliminate huddles faced by common people in accessing postal services. “We regard this project a milestone in providing postal services to the people as  they will now be able to receive their parcels easily and conduct online business transactions with lesser obstacles; more so, postal services in our country are now climbing the ladder to become more  digital-based therefore the postcode and residential addresses project will ease businesses and of course provision of Postal services on the way to developing the Digital Economy” added Dr Jabiri Bakari Director General  of the TCRA. More than 38bn/- have been set aside for the construction of this modern 17-storey building, which is being built in collaboration between the Pan-African Post Union (PAPU) and the Tanzanian government through the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). TCRA Board of Directors Delegation, accompanied by TCRA Management led by TCRA Director General Dr Jabiri Bakari, paid a visit to the construction site on Wednesday, April 27 to check on progress, which, according to the Chairman of the Board, shows good progress.