Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIF) has picked more than 3000 film works globally and submitted them to their online platforms. According to the ZIFF report, the films were taken from 33 countries around the world and submitted to their two online platforms including Film Freeway and Festhome. This was revealed on Tuesday by a ZIFF report when celebrating their Silver Jubilee of the dhow countries as an important landmark to an organization. A total of 394 films were selected from thirteen countries from Africa including Tanzania, Rwanda, Kenya, Uganda, Congo, South Africa, Ghana, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Zambia, Senegal, Sudan and Tunis. Also, the 1, 986 films were selected from outside African countries including Spain, Iran, Iraq, Italy, United State of America, United Kingdom, China, Mexico, Brazil, Germany, France, India, Japan, Korea, Ukraine, Belgium, Switzerland, Lebanon, Pakistan and Nepal. The report shows that ZIFF is expected to establish a permanent ZIFF YouTube Channel for the selected films screening in the festival this year. “ZIFF YouTube Channel will only include films that have won or made an impact at ZIFF online platforms and to be a regular screening, discussion space where filmmakers can reach discerning audiences”. Along with that ZIFF will also launch a number of regional film programs including the first tour of The East Africa Screen Collective (EASC), a consortium of companies and organizations advocating for freedom of expression in the screening industry in East Africa. During the festival, Deutsche Well Academy (DWA) partnership with ZIFF will gather the first groups of individuals sponsored in film development from Ethiopia, Uganda and Tanzania with the aims of meeting, greetings and sharing experiences about film development. Also the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) programs will get a chance and be launched at ZIFF2022 in bringing together ACP countries in participatory film production and training, and Docubox will host. In the festival ZIFF will present its programmes including the Women, Children and Village Panoramas where the focus is on film and activities around the three community groups. “ This festival has only been able to exist due to the support we have had from our sponsors from the European Union Delegation in Dar es Salaam has been our main supporter in previous festivals and continues to do so this year,” said ZIFF via its website. Likewise the GIZ continues to sponsor the much loved and hailed Sembene Ousmane Film for Development awards, which support the development of short films made by Africans. In retrospect the Festival’s CEO; Professor Martin Mhando has requested the Tanzania and Zanzibar governments to co-operate in financing the operation of the ZFF office as their sponsors support the running of the programme. “25-year-old ZIFF has been instrumental in bringing tourists to the event as more than 6,000 people come to watch the third largest show in Africa,” he said. EU has agreed to continue to support ZIFF in various programs and will have their day at the event. The film that will open the curtain is “Vuta Nikuvute” directed by Shivj from Adam Shafi novel