THE government has pledged full support to enable Taifa Stars get adequate preparations before the start of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers in June. The country's envoys have been placed in group F of the qualifiers together with Algeria, Uganda and Niger, a group many football analysts have described as a good test for Stars if they had quality preparations before going into the battlefield. In his reaction yesterday, the Director of Sports in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports Yusuph Singo said they are waiting to receive a full report from the team's technical bench on how they intend to do their preparations. "As government, on behalf of all Tanzanians, we are keen to see that our national team competes in major football events of AFCON status that is why we want to ensure that the team is subjected to enough rehearsals before the qualifiers start. "The current administration has put much weight on sports development by increasing the budget for national teams which fly high the country's flag outside the country and I am sure we will achieve our goal," he said. Adding, he said it is pleasing to see Taifa Stars squad boast a good number of players who play profession football outside the country, a thing he described as a good gesture since they have a broad exposure from other leagues. Also, recently, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Technical Director Oscar Mirambo said all groups which have been unveiled for AFCON qualifiers are tricky and the best way to excel is to have enough preparations. "In football, what matters most is having ample preparations. Our group is not that difficult and I am sure that we can manage to excel only if we engage in serious drills," he said. Moreover, he pointed out that they will have a meeting with Head Coach Kim Poulsen to see how best they can make a thorough plan for Taifa Stars to follow ahead of the commencement of the qualifiers. Without doubt, Algeria and Uganda are the favourites in the group by looking on the paper but it should be known that football has transformed a lot these days such that big names are no longer a threat. As such, it all depends on Paulsen and his subordinates on how they are going to prepare the team for the qualifiers and the most important thing is to take full use of the home ground advantage. Taifa Stars have been urged to utilise three matches to be staged at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam to gather maximum points and never entertain any drop of points at their home soil. This is the time for people to have trust in their team by knowing that anything in football can happen and in AFCON finals, surprise packages are always produced and perhaps it has been written in the sky that this is the moment for Tanzania to shine. 