THE Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Pauline Gekul has urged the scholarship beneficiaries from the Indian government to be good ambassadors in promoting Tanzanian culture, including the use of Kiswahili language. The call was made during the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) day which was organised by Indian High Commission to Tanzania, which aims to foster and strengthen cultural relations and mutual understanding between India and other countries. "I commend the Government of India through ICCR for continuing to provide scholarships for higher education for Tanzanian youths, since the programme began more than 300 Tanzanians have benefited, where for the 2021/22 season 53 Tanzanians have received funding at the undergraduate, master's degrees, "she said. She,  on behalf of the Minister Mohamedi Mchengerwa,  pledged to continue  in promoting Tanzanian culture by urging the students  to be creative in establishing cultural centres and Kiswahili language classes in the areas during their  training programmes so that their fellow Indians  could get a chance of  learning  their culture. The government has continued its efforts in promoting the use of Kiswahili language in international arenas. The event brought together 50 graduates who benefited from ICCR  programmes with the aim of exchanging experiences. The  Deputy Minister further urged the beneficiaries  to make good use of  their skills  through their different professions  in contributing to  national development. The India High Commissioner in Tanzania,  Binaya Pradhan  added that ICCR aims to promote cultural linkage  around the world. He said the centre was established in Tanzania in 2010, it has been engaged in culture promotion activities as well as providing long sponsorship to Tanzanians. Pradhan further applauded the Tanzania government  for its support in various Indian Initiatives which help to understand the culture of the people and also strengthens the cultural relationship, this was due to the long-term partnership in both countries. The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR)'s  objectives are to actively participate in the formulation and implementation of policies and programmes pertaining to India’s external cultural relations to promote cultural exchanges with other countries and people, and to develop relations with nations. Commenting on the experience they got through the programme, one of the ICCR beneficiaries, Mathias Mkuhi said Indians have preserved well their tradition including the food which acts as a good example to other communities worldwide and urged Tanzanians to continue preserving and promoting  their culture which can be developed into tourism. Indian Council for Cultural Relations administers various scholarship programmes annually and awards about 3,000 scholarships in 26 different schemes to foreign students from about 140 countries.