THE government has launched a special programme to assess workplace safety and health in all ministries and government institutions. The programme, to be implemented by the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA), will go along with free health check and training to civil servants over safety and health at workplaces. Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disability), Prof Joyce Ndalichako graced the launch of the programme in Dodoma early this week, and will run for one month from April 20, this year. Prof Ndalichako noted that the programme will involve, among other things, inspection on systems for safety at office of the ministries including construction of government’s buildings at Mtumba Government City. Other components are to conduct medical testing, training of first aid at workplaces and building capacity among members of committees for safety and health at workplaces as well as helping formation of such committees. Upon completion of the programme, the OSHA will give professional recommendations to be used by the government for improving work environment. “Basically, OSHA has a mandate to protect labour power by enforcing the law on safety and health at workplace and its regulations. According to the law, the authority should identify all workplaces, register and reach them for inspection. The OSHA is also mandated to train workers and conduct medical testing. Speaking over the programme, OSHA’s Chief Executive officer, Khadija Mwenda said the initiative was a progress of the authority’s strategies to conduct countrywide assessment on safety and health at workplaces by sectors. “We have inaugurated this programme for inspection, training and medical testing to all public workers and we are starting with the Prime Minister’s Office,” Ms Mwenda stated. She said the objective was to prepare a register of risks at workplaces as per the sector and thus simplify preparation of strategy for controlling those risks. Some employees from the Prime Minister’s Office who attended the launching event hailed the move, saying the programme would be helpful in improving environment at their workplaces. “Generally, this initiative is useful because it will help us (public servants) to do our jobs while observing precautions against various risks,” said Mr Aloyce Kirumbi, a human resource officer in the Prime Minister’s Office.