SIMBA face athletical Orando Pirates o South Africa whose records in the Confederation Cup’s group stage show it is a team adept in both home and away venues. From what the Soweto giants displayed in their group stage campaign they are excellent in both home and away venues compared to Simba whose excellence has been recorded in their home games. It was confirmed yesterday in Cairo that the Tanzanian envoys Simba will face  South  Africa’s  side   Orlando  Pirates  CAF Confederation Cup quarter-finals as group D runners up. Simba finished second in the group of D behind  the tournament’s  defending  champions  RS  Berkane  after beating US  Gendamarie  of Niger 4-0  at Benjamin  Mkapa  Stadium  in  Dar  es  Salaam. Simba will host the Pirates in Dar es Salaam in the their knockout stage of the campaign. Then Simba will travel  to South  Africa to  wind up  their campaign for the last  four  tickets. Pirates finished at the top of their group B campaign  after a 0-0 draw with Sudanese outfit, Al-Ittihad last Sunday in Orlando. The quarter-finals fixtures revealed yesterday after the draw which was conducted with the assistance of Angolan legend Flavio Amado, CAF Competitions Director Samson Adamu   saw the following results: QF 1: Simba SC (Tanzania) – Orlando Pirates (South Africa), QF 2: Al-Ittihad (Libya) - Al Ahli Tripoli (Libya) – a derby, QF 3: Pyramids FC (Egypt) – TP Mazembe (DR Congo) and  QF 4: Al Masry (Egypt) – RS Berkane (Morocco) According  to  the  draw,   the  winners   of  the  two  legged  match  between  Simba  and  Pirates  will   face  the  aggregate  winners  of   the  match  between  Al-Ittihad  and  Al Ahli Tripoli  in  semifinals  stage. While  the  winners  of  the  third  quarterfinals  between Pyramids  and  TP  Mazembe   will face the winners of the  fourth  quarter final  between  Al Masry  and  RS Berkane  . Meanwhile  in  the CAF Champions League  draw  held  on  the  same  day  and venue  placed the  tournament giants   Al Ahly against Morocco’s  Raja Casablanca  in  the  first quarterfinals of tournament . While  in  the  second  quarterfinals will see   Algeria’s Es  Setif locking horns with   Esperance Tunis and  in  the  third  quarterfinals  CR Belouizdad  will face  Wydad AC and  in the  last quarterfinal Angola’s  Petro de Luanda  will play South  Africa’s  Mamelodi Sundowns The winners of the match between Sundowns and Petro de Luanda   will face the winners of the clash between Algeria’s CR Belouizdad and and Morocco’s Wydad AC in the semi-finals. The quarterfinals of the both competitions will be played on the weekend of April 15-16 and April 22-23.