YOUNG Africans have forecasted a tall order match against Namungo saying they will approach the game with a winning mentality to produce their first ever league victory over the Lindi-based outfits. The two teams lock horns at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam this Saturday in a solo fixture of the NBC Premier League. The hosts would like to stretch their lead at the top of the log with 13 points clear of their closest pursuers and traditional rivals Simba if they manage to beat their opponents on the day and simultaneously, the good results will drive Yanga to 20-match unbeaten run. Likewise, Namungo will be keen to go into history books for becoming the first team in the campaign to beat Yanga and continue to climb up the league ladders. "We are aware that a match against Namungo will be very difficult, but we are preparing well to emerge winners and each player in the camp is working hard to see the team meets the desired goal. "It should be known that since they got promoted into the top flight, we have never won against them and this is the moment to break the jinx," said Yanga's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli yesterday. Touching briefly on their looming traditional derby clash against Simba on April 30th, Bumbuli said the fixture is not giving them sleepless nights saying they are just waiting to grab three points from them. "Most often Simba surrendered four points to us in the league and so far we have pocketed one point from them, hence we are just waiting to grab the three points to keep our hopes of claiming the 28th league title alive," he said. For Namungo, their Monday's heavy 3-1 triumph over Ruvu Shooting has given them a boost prior to facing Yanga and the team's Assistant Coach Jamhuri Kihwelo believes that his charges will keep the same momentum. "As you saw, most players played well including David Molinga who contributed one goal and we need them to have the same fighting spirit when playing Yanga on Saturday," Kihwelo said. Moreover, Kihwelo cemented that their objective this season is to lift the premier league title saying they will only stop hoping when the final games of the campaign are played. It should be noted that Namungo, alongside Simba and Mbeya City are so far the only teams that have shared spoils with Yanga in the league, hence they have to prove it again this time around.