THE Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states have been lauded for the continued commitment and support to the fight against terrorism, which continues to threaten the gains that the region is making towards integration and socio-economic development. This was said during the Extraordinary Ministerial Committee of the Organ (MCO) Troika, plus Personnel Contributing Countries and the Republic of Mozambique meeting held in Pretoria, South Africa on Sunday. The meeting was held to discuss the prevailing security situation and progress of the SADC Mission in Mozambique (SAMIM). The meeting was chaired by Minister of International Relations and Cooperation of the Republic of South Africa, Dr Naledi Pandor, in her capacity as the Chairperson of the SADC Ministerial Committee of the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation. Dr Pandor applauded the inauguration of the Regional Counter-Terrorism Centre (RCTC) on February 28th 2022 in Tanzania, as an important step towards strengthening SADC regional security architecture. The RCTC was established to ensure enhanced coordination, strengthened partnerships, as well as to foster timely response to terrorism and violent extremism within the SADC Region. The Chairperson of the MCO welcomed the financial support from the European Union (EU) to SAMIM under the African Union (AU) Early Response Mechanism (ERM), which focuses on non-military interventions especially on youths and women empowerment, dialogue with civic leaders and capacity building of Police and Correctional Services Officers, among other key interventions. The SADC Executive Secretary, Mr Elias Magosi said they need to continue strategising and working collectively and collaboratively to enhance and consolidate achievements made in the area of regional peace and security, as the ever changing dynamics of acts of terrorism and violent extremism have potential spillover effects. Magosi thanked the government of Mozambique for the continued cooperation with the Secretariat and the SAMIM, which he said, demonstrates the shared commitment to ensure SAMIM succeeds in its mandate of restoring peace and stability in affected parts of Cabo Delgado Province. During their meeting the ministers commended the SAMIM leadership and men and women on the ground for their sacrifices and commitment to the fight against the terrorists acts in some parts of Cabo Delgado Province. The ministers directed the Head of SAMIM, supported by the Force Headquarters and the Regional Coordination Mechanism, to coordinate the Humanitarian Assistance in the Mission area in order to facilitate delivery of humanitarian assistance to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and to continue providing security to organisations providing humanitarian assistance to IDPs, particularly in areas that are difficult to access. Noting that combating terrorism requires a holistic approach, including supporting the Republic of Mozambique in undertaking confidence building measures to achieve public support against terrorists, several SADC Member States pledged to contribute critical capability requirements, including humanitarian support, in addition to troop personnel contributions.