THE Parliament on Friday endorsed the Ministry of Minerals’ budget amounting to 83.4bn/- in which the government outlined new measures which seek to make the sector contribute immensely to the National Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Tabling the budget, Minister Dr Doto Biteko said the new measures that focus on increasing revenue collection include promoting small-scale miners and empowering citizens to participate in mineral economy. However, the minister expounded further that artisanal miners were in the right track to have the country’s economy growing. Other measures will be focused on encouraging mineral value addition activities, promoting investments in the sector and improving supervision of mineral inspection system. Also in the list of measures, include building capacity for all institutions under the ministry so that they may be able to effectively fulfill their responsibilities and improving environment at work places. On large and medium scale mining activities, the minister said, the government will strengthen control and supervision of the mining activities   so that the nation gets its fair share, implement anti mineral smuggling strategies and mineral black market   and strengthen mineral marketing centres. According to minister, an emphasis will be placed on the newly discovered graphite minerals as well as putting up new markets for minerals. The minister insisted that the plan was to make the sector offer a contribution amounting to 10 per cent of the GDP from the current 7 per cent. The minister said that through the ministry about 200 mining licences were revoked during this financial year, adding that another 400 were on the waiting list to be blocked after failing to meet legal qualifications. “We are just doing this because there has been a section of persons who have been blatantly violating the requirements of the law, so we want to get them out, retaining those who are law abiding persons,’’ he stated. During the debate, Salome Makamba, a Special Seats MP (CHADEMA), said that there were big business men and women who were possessing mining licences but actually were supposed to be banned from engaging in mining business. In his presentation in the august House, Dr Biteko said that the government was fully committed to empowering people in the mining economy. He further told the Parliament that in the next financial year, the government plans to collect 894.3bn/-  compared to 696.4bn/- that was collected during the corresponding period in 2021/22. The target increase is equivalent to 22.2 per cent. Out of the money that will be collected, the minister said 822bn/- an equivalent of 91.9 per cent  would be collected and handled over to the treasury while 72.3bn/- which is equivalent to 8.1per cent would be collected and used by institutions under the ministry. The ministry’s approved budget is an increase of 24.9 per cent compared to the previous one.