TANZANIAN envoys Simba sadly missed the CAF Confederation Cup semis following a 4-3 loss to Orlando Pirates through spot-kicks at Orlando Stadium in South Africa on Sunday. The country’s envoys went to South Africa with one foot into the semifinals following their 1-0 win in the first leg at the full-packed Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam before Kwame Peprah gave Orlando Pirate a 1-0 victory in South Africa. Peprah scored the game’s only goal with a bullet header. Simba got penalties through Shomari Kapombe, Medie Kagere and Mohammed Hussein, while Henock Inonga and Jonas Mkude missed. Aishi Manula made one spot-kick save from Kabelo Dlamini. The game was tough, where the host Pirates seemed to dominate from the middle terrain to the front. Simba played a defensive game that prevented numerous attacks carried out by the South African envoys. Leaving aside the excellent defence shown by Simba’s defenders led by their skipper Mohammed Hussein, Henock Inonga, Joash Onyango, Pascal Wawa and Shomari Kapombe, Aishi Manula stood firmly to stop several Pirates’ fierce shots. Among the chances Orlando Pirates got was in the second minute through Peprah, but the solid Simba defence removed the danger. After the first attempt, it did not take long for the Pirates to get a foul, Deon Hotto well took the foul, but Manula stood firm to save. Pirates made another 12th-minute attack in which Bandile Shandu got a clear attempt, which he failed to make good use of and went wide. The first half ended with a barren draw. In the 57th minute, Simba found themselves a man down after striker Kope Mugalu was shown a straight red card for a reckless challenge. Pirates then got the breakthrough with Peprah finding the back of the net in the 60th minute, who completed his teammate’s well-taken set-piece. Orlando Pirates tried to double the game’s closing stages through Onassis Mntambo, but his bullet header hit the crossbar as they wanted to wrap up the game and book their place in the semifinals. In the end, the match was decided on penalties. Richard Ofori was the hero as he saved a penalty from Jonas Mkude and scored the winner. Meanwhile, TP Mazembe secured their ticket to the semi-finals of the Confederation Cup after beating Pyramids FC 2-0 in Lubumbashi in the second leg tie of their quarter final duel. Mazembe went through with a 2-0 aggregate after their first leg encounter with Pyramids ended with a barren draw.