ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi has welcomed investors from Europe, giving assurance that his government has been doing enough in improving the investment environment. Dr Mwinyi also expressed his government’s commitment to work with investors in various projects in the Blue Economy. He made the remarks at the State House here, during the talks with the UK Prime Minister’s Trade Envoy to Tanzania Lord Walney (John Woodcock), who led a delegation of British investors. Lord Walney and his delegation was also accompanied by the British High Commissioner to Tanzania, David Concar. “Zanzibar has many investment opportunities in the Blue Economy sector, including seaweed farming and deep sea fishing. And, among challenges in seaweed farming is low payment and lack of a reliable market. The government is determined to see the end of these challenges so that farmers can benefit,” Dr Mwinyi said. He commended the delegation for visiting Zanzibar, saying the move would provide an opportunity for various local firms to secure deals or sign Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) with their counterparts in the UK in various fields. In the course, Lord Walney introduced to the president some of the investors from the UK and their areas of interest. Among the UK investors are those engaged and interested to invest in seaweed farming, boat construction, road infrastructure, and airports services. "We want to work in Zanzibar and we are here to find areas where we can do business,” he said. Earlier, the Minister of Blue Economy and Fisheries Suleiman Masoud Makame, said the arrival of the delegation was an asset and fruit of the Tanzania-UK Trade Summit held on November 16, 2021, when they agreed to come in the country to find investment opportunities, especially in the sectors of the Blue economy. The minister said that during their stay in the country, the delegation is expected to meet and hold talks with traders from the private sector. “This is an opportunity for local investors to partner with investors from the UK,” he insisted. Meanwhile President Mwinyi also met with the 'Multiparty Democracy Reforms Task Force' led by its Chairperson Professor Rwekaza Mukandala at the State House yesterday, where he emphasized the importance of conducting civilized politics in the country by putting the interests of the nation ahead of everything. He tasked them to strive to maintain peace. "We always reiterate that we need maturity in democracy and civilized politics to avoid hate and violence because we cannot move forwards without peace,” Mwinyi said. The taskforce was formed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan last year in efforts to build good relations with opposition political parties and stakeholders. Dr Mwinyi commended President Samia for forming the taskforce to collect views and subsequently make recommendations to both governments (Zanzibar and Union) on how to find solutions to grievances in conducting politics, so that the country remains peaceful. President Mwinyi said the best way to solve the problem is through dialogues instead of using political platforms to blame one another. On his part, Prof Mukandala thanked President Mwinyi for his great efforts in bringing economic, social and political development to Zanzibar. He also lauded him for his guidance on conducting civilized politics in the country, while taking into account the national interest including maintaining peace, stability and national unity.