A non-profit organization in the region has constructed 19 Predator-Proof Bomas to mitigate Human-Wildlife Conflicts (HWC) along the Kwakuchinja wildlife corridor. The cost-effective approach seeks to protect livestock at night, according to ChemChem Association (CCA) project manager Walter Pallangyothe move intends to protect livestock from predation at night. Speaking during a virtual Biodiversity Conservation Breakfast Debate midweek, MrPallangyo said the structures act as refuge bomas for livestock owned by communities in an area which is synonymous with lion attacks. “Lions and other predators have been attacking villagers on daily basis, but with such bomas homesteads have become secure and can go about their daily activities without any concern,” explained MrPallangyo during the virtual meeting which hinged on the Role of the Private Sector in Supporting biodiversity conservation and protecting wildlife corridors. According to the CCA official, the predator-proof enclosures also serve as a tool for lion conservation in a human-wildlife conflict-prone area. “So sensitive is the issue as it touches on the livelihoods of the affected herders,” he said. MrPallnagyo further disclosed that the Safari firm has for years strived to generate funds specific for anti-poaching activities, provided fuel to patrol cars and food substances during the patrol, in a bid to enable communities to harmoniously co-exist with the wildlife. On her part, Tanzania Private Sector Foundation(TPSF) policy analyst Victoria Michael underscored the importance of the private sector’s commitment in conservation. “As a sector, we should always strive to strike the right balance between people’s livelihoods and conservation,” said the TPSF policy analyst at the meeting which was coordinated by the Journalists’ Environmental Association of Tanzania (JET), through a five- year United States Agency for International Development (USAID) TuhifadhiMaliasili Project. Earlier on, JET Chairperson Dr Ellen Otaru challenged media practitioners to use their work in protecting and conserving the country’s wealthy natural resources for the good of future generations.