THE Dar es Salaam Yacht club employees have won a case after their employer failed to comply with the government labour employment law. The ruling came after when the employees filed the case with Dar es salaam Yacht club concerning several issues. The Commission for Mediation and Arbitration CMA gave a ruling last week for rejecting their work employment rights demand. More than 49 employees filed the lawsuit in early February this year complaining to the Managing Director, Brian Fernandes for failing to comply with employment procedures in accordance with the Employment and Labor Relations Act of 2004. The workers were complaining three issues, harassment, denial of the right to join unions such as TUICO, lack of a scheme of service and training program. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday on behalf of the workers, their lawyer Claus Thomas Mwainoma, said after the conflict was referred to CMA it was heard through arbitration where the employer was called on March 31, 2022. He said the employer acknowledged the demand and an agreed by promising the Commission that he will sort out all their problems within 90 days. That said he will provide the Scheme of Service, workers will not be interfered to join trade unions and the issues of harassment will be solved immiadetely. "So the conflict has come to an end and Mvungi Arbitrator gave us an award for implementing what they promised and if they are not implemented within the stipulated time further steps will be taken and the award will be used to emphasize their claims," he said. In addition, he called on workers and employers to adhere to workplace rules and regulations to create an enabling environment for both parties. He added that employees who feel unfairly treated by an employer or in any way have failed to understand labor laws; law enforcement agencies are there to defend their rights. "Do not bother to sue or ask the law enforcement agencies for more clarification as the Yacht Club staff did. We believe this matter will go smoothly and implementation will be done as agreed on in the arbitration," he said. He said the current situation; workers motivated to work because they believed their grievances would be met. As a result of this decision, our correspondent unsuccessfully sought out Yacht Club Company Manager Brian Fernandes who is also an employer. However, the company's Human Resources Officer, Stellah Kimaro declined to comment on the CMA's decision and claimed that she was not a spokesperson for the company. In addition, Ryan Wienand, Vice President of the Yacht Club briefly replied 'no comment' that he had no comment on the CMA decision.