CCM Vice-chairman (Mainland) Adulrahman Kinana has warned party cadres vying for leadership posts to sell ideas and not bribe them to be elected. Mr Kinana, who was recently elected to serve the position, reminded the aspirants to let the members make fair choices, and not try to influence them using money. Kinana issued the warning yesterday during the meeting held at Mkuranga District in Coast Region, where he asked local government leaders to remove the names of anyone, who would try to seek leadership post by using his/her financial power. “In our party every member has the right to elect and be elected, no one’s right should be bought by another person. So let me ask the district leaders here… if you see someone looking for leadership by using his/her financial power, please don’t be ashamed or hesitate to remove his/her name,” he directed. In an ongoing CCM’s intra-party elections, Kinana has asked local government leaders to effectively oversee the elections and ensure they are free and fair and as well eliminate any form of injustice. “I want to ask the party leaders at the regional, district and ward level, to stand for justice because there are people, who are respected and accepted in this party but have no money to give, hence, likely to be kept out and this is unjust,” he emphasized. Elaborating, he noted that CCM was against corruption and instead encouraging justice across the country. He added, “The party’s main task was to serve the people by listening to their problems and solving them through both the Union Government and the revolutionary government of Zanzibar.” He said the CCM has a responsibility to explain the success of the government and the success of President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Earlier, the Coast Regional Commissioner, Abubakar Kunenge, said his region had put in place various strategies to ensure the targets set out in the CCM’s 2025 manifesto were met. “During the period from March 2021 to February 2022, various projects were implemented, especially in the education, health, water, agriculture, industry, fisheries and good governance sectors,” he said. For his part, Mkuranga Member of Parliament, Mr Abdallah Ulega asked CCM Vice-Chairman Kinana to oversee the implementation of the Kisiju Port upgrading and the completion of the Samia Suluhu Hassan Bus Stand in Mwandege Town, which is expected to create more employment opportunities in Mkuranga.