THE 47th Extra-Ordinary Meeting of the East African Community (EAC) Council of Ministers yesterday proposed a 91.6 million US dollars budget for the financial year 2022/2023. Of the total amount, a whopping 37.5 million US dollars will come from development partners. The budget which puts emphasis on development projects is also set to cater for the organs and Institutions of the Arusha based Secretariat. According to the ministers, 54.1 million US dollars will be distributed to the EAC main organs, namely the East African Court of Justice (EACJ), East African Legislative Assembly (EALA). Other institutions that will benefit from the cut also include the East African Science and Technology Commission (EASTECO), the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) and the East African Kiswahili Commission (EACK). They also include the East African Health Research Commission (EAHRC) and the East African Community Competition Authority (EACA). The Inter-University Council for East Africa (ICUEA) on the other hand is set to receive 644,219 US dollars from the budget estimates while 465,500 US dollars will be channeled towards the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO). The budget estimates by the six partner states for the financial year 2022/2023 are said to be the same with 2021/2022 as the community continues to grapple with Covid-19. Some of the development projects that are likely to benefit from the estimates include the second phase of the construction of the IUCEA, maintenance of a Research Vessel, which has been grounded for ten years. Christened Jumuiya, the East African Community's only vessel of its kind, has been out of service due to issues on its floating dock, expired certificates and lack of a budget for maintenance and repair costs.  Other projects also include the second phase construction of the LVBC headquarters and the election monitoring in Kenya. In the same vein, the 47th Extra-Ordinary Meeting reviewed and tabled reports on financial and administrative matters of the Community. It also appointed candidates into the various vacant positions in the EAC Organs, Institutions and Projects in line with the EAC Staff Rules and Regulations. Tanzania’s delegation was during the Extra-ordinary meeting represented by Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Ambassador Liberata Mulamula and Finance and Planning Minister Dr Mwigulu Nchemba.   