PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan’s visit to the United States (US) is set to benefit the country in different aspects, including winning the confidence of American businessmen as well as attracting more tourists, analysts have said. They also consider President Samia’s trip as an opportunity for the country to cement further its bilateral ties with the world’s economic giant that has been supporting Tanzania on social-economic development and through provision of technical support. The analysts aired their views after President Samia met with US Vice-President Kamala Harris in Washington DC on Friday for official talks. Speaking at a press conference held at the White House in Washington DC shortly after their internal meeting, the two expressed mutual interests for the two nations to propel stronger ties in areas of investment, economic growth and health. The Head of State seized the platform to invite the US private sector to work with Tanzania, given that the latter has plenty of opportunities for investment, trade and business. Commenting on the trip, political analyst Mr Goodluck Ng’ingo said President Samia’s trip provides an opportunity for the country to prosper economically. “Through her meeting with US top leaders, the country is going to win the confidence of American investors and even the number of tourists coming to Tanzania will increase,” he said. He noted that chances are high for the country to continue receiving technical assistance on education, health and security sectors. “This also creates a number of opportunities for Tanzanians who want to trade in the US,” added Mr Ng’ingo during an interview with the Sunday News yesterday. For his part, an Assistant Lecturer at the Mzumbe University in Morogoro, Jerum Kilumile views the trip as a platform to market Tanzania tourism attractions. “Since she has gone for the launch of Tanzania Royal Tour documentary, no doubt that the country will benefit more from the tourism sector,” he said. Eelier yesterday, the US Vice-President said President Samia’s visit has already generated nearly one billion US dollars (2.3tri/-) in new investments to Tanzania. For her part, President Samia said the government in collaboration with the private sector is in the process of enacting the Tanzania Private Sector Act, which is expected to set the tone for creating a safe landing for the private sector. “My only request here is for the US government to encourage the private sector to come to Tanzania since there is a lot of potential,” she told the US Vice-President. President Samia also expressed her excitement about the prospect of promoting further trade and investment ties for mutual benefits of the two countries. Going forward, she also commended the US for its continued support of Tanzania in health and social economic development in uplifting the lives of many Tanzanians. “For years the US government through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has helped Tanzania through various programmes and initiatives, including the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and Feed the Future Initiative,” said President Samia. President Samia also held a meeting with Ambassadors representing East African Community (EAC) partner states in US, as well as those from Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states, where she had organised Iftar for them in Washington.