MINISTER for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba has urged Tanzanians especially young people to seize opportunities brought about by development of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) so that they improve the economy. He made the call in New York, US yesterday in the launching of the NALA Network (NALA APP), a new kind of mobile money transfer for Africans worldwide. “NALA APP will be used by Tanzanians who are living in the United States to send money to Tanzania digitally,” said Minister Mwigulu. He also congratulated the CEO of NALA Company, Benjamin Fernandes and his team, for designing the application that will facilitate the transfer of funds from the US to Tanzania. Mwigulu said the application will boost the country's economy and accelerate the development of citizens, who will benefit from its services. "Benjamin Fernandes and your team are among the creative young people, who are focusing on technological issues. “The government will continue to support such initiatives, especially at a time when the country is building a digital economy with the aim of creating an employment, contributing to the GDP (Gross Domestic Product), as well as addressing all economic and social challenges,” said Dr Mwigulu. He also acknowledges that the government has invested heavily in ICT infrastructure by building the National ICT broadband backbone (NICTBB) connected with other African countries including Burundi, Rwanda, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda and Zambia and soon the DRC and Mozambique will be connected. Minister Mwigulu appealed to investors in the ICT sector to invest in Tanzania and take advantage of the favourable investment climate that the country has set to attract capital and technology. The minister pledged to address the challenges identified by the company's management in matters of obtaining licences to run ICT activities that encourage young designers to invest in technologies. “I have been informed that the United States has invested nearly 1.5 billion US dollars in the ICT sector in Africa, I would like to see Tanzania is becoming one of the countries that will benefit from the investment,” said Dr Mwigulu. On his part, the CEO of NALA Company Mr Benjamin Fernandes said that the application launched in the US works in nine other countries around the world and was designed to support remittances to African countries. In addition, Mr Fernandes called on the government to look into the possibility of reducing the terms of the internet business licence, to enable more young ICT developers, to invest their energy, as it will increase employment and boost their economy. He explained that currently, a person who wants to provide innovative services has to pay a licence to the Central Bank of Tanzania even before starting to work in order to fulfil their dreams of self-employment and hiring other people.