President Samia Suluhu Hassan declared on Friday and today as days of national mourning following the death of Kenya’s third President Mwai Kibaki. Kibaki passed away on April 22nd at the age of 90. Kenyans held the state funeral yesterday for the departed leaders who will be buried today at his village of Othaya, Nyeri County, in central Kenya. “The Tanzanian flag shall fly at half-mast across the whole territory of the country and at all Tanzanian diplomatic missions abroad during the two-day national mourning,” the statement issued by Director of Presidential Communication, Zuhura Yunus, read in part. President Samia expressed her profound sympathies to Kenyans, urging Tanzanians to stand in solidarity with their neighbours during this difficult time as they mourn their former leader's demise. The president did not attend the funeral in Kenya, but Vice President Philip Mpango represented her. Tanzania has become the second East African nation to declare days of national mourning after South Sudan's President Salva Kiir on Saturday, April 23 declared three days of mourning in his country. ‘‘I convey my deepest condolences on behalf of the Government of South Sudan to His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta, the family of the former President and the people of the Republic of Kenya,’’ read the statement from the Office of the President. President Kiir directed that the South Sudanese flag be flown at half-mast during the mourning period. Kiir hailed the late Kibaki for exhibiting leadership and playing a role in Kenya’s economic revamp during his stint that ran from 2003 to 2013. South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa and President Kiir led foreign leaders in paying their last respects to Kenya's late President Kibaki. In an earlier message of condolence, President Samia described the late Kibaki as one of Africa’s finest sons and a dedicated public servant. “I’m deeply saddened by the passing on of the third President of Kenya Kibaki. Africa has lost one of its finest sons and a dedicated public servant. My condolences also go to President Uhuru Kenyatta, the bereaved family and all Kenyans. May his soul rest in peace,” she tweeted from her account. President Kenyatta announced the death of Kibaki who duly served as Kenya’s third president from 2002 until April 2013. In his condolences message, Zanzibar President, Dr Hussein Mwinyi also said Kibaki will be remembered for his significant achievements in improving Kenya’s economy and democracy. “We pay tribute to his legacy and mourn with his family, friends, and Kenyans. During this painful moment of grieving, I encourage President Kenyatta and all Kenyans to be patient,” he said. President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, also wrote on his Instagram page his sincere condolences to the people of Kenya and to the family of former President Kibaki. “His dedication to the economic transformation of Kenya and his work toward regional integration will be remembered for many generations. The people of Rwanda stand with Kenya during this time,” President Kagame stated.