PRESIDENT SamiaSuluhu Hassan is expected to officiate this year’s May Day national celebrations in Dodoma Region, with 3000 visitors expected to attend. Public servants are eagerly waiting to hear from the Head of State over their welfare. Last year, when addressing hundreds of workers at CCM Kirumba grounds, Mwanza Region, President Samia said that at that time, her government was not in the right position to raise salaries, citing economic factors but hinted on possibility to do so next May Day which comes next month. However, on that day, the President reduced Pay as You Earn (PAYE) from 9 percent to 8 percent. Yesterday, Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Anthony Mtaka said this year's May Day would be one of its own as he launched a hashtag for the celebrations that will be marked nationally in the country's capital and the political region of the country. The hashtag: ‘Meimosi2022dodomakivingine’ seeks to engage every worker in the country to be active ahead, during and after the celebrations. This is the first time for President Samia to officiate such national event in the capital city since took oath of the office last year. The Dodoma Regional Commissioner said over 3,000 delegates who will arrive in the country's capital will optionally have an opportunity to have a glimpse on the development projects currently being undertaken in the city after the newly launched Projects tourism. The Mtaka-designed Projects tourism seeks to ensure that every person entering the region knows what is actually going on in making the country's Capital greater through implementation of different projects and make it one of its own in the East, Central and Southern African Regions. At a news conference, MrMtaka said ahead of May 1, 2022, there would be a series of activities including sports and exhibitions to be conducted by different workers unions and the private sector as well as other stakeholders in the working sector. The RC said this was yet another opportunity for business persons in Dodoma to tap the opportunity, as many persons were now coming to their areas.