IN yet another event of introducing Tanzania to the world, President Samia Suluhu Hassan will today grace the premier of the Royal Tour programme in Los Angeles, California. This is part of a series of events to introduce the documentary, ahead of similar event in Arusha on 28th this month and Zanzibar on May 7th this year. Ahead of today’s launch, President Samia on Tuesday visited the Biotech products factory in Wisconsin, United States. At the factory, the Head of State was briefed on the technology used to control insects spreading various diseases. Commenting on her tour, some stakeholders yesterday aired their views on the Royal Tour documentary that according to an economist-cum-banker, Dr. Hildebrand Shayo, it is well-timed and will bring in various economic benefits to Tanzania. “It is important to know that the Royal Tour itself isn’t enough, more need to be done to attract and encourage more tourists to come so that the nationals, in turn enjoy the economic benefits associated with their visits. “Given that already there are a number of tourist destinations around the world, relatively with established attractions destinations and clean sand beaches, changing their mind and hence opt to Tanzania’s destinations will greatly depend on our responses, especially on quality of services to be offered and convince them to routinely prefer Tanzania,” said Dr Shayo. He added that there were a couple of areas that needed to be strengthened if the country’s objective was to maximize envisioned economic benefits. “Tour operators and agents need to think outside the box and present products and packages that will target a wider audience regardless of age and fitness level. “Simply waiting for tourists to come because of Royal Tour film is aired in America and later in Tanzania isn’t going to generate interest, operators supported by the responsible ministry need to include aspects and things that attract tourists and mostly present them to the tourists, when they come,” said the Economist Equally, he emphasized on efforts to create a marketing strategy that excellently targets desired market Tanzania has. With the development of a marketing plan and customer profiling, tour operators in Tanzania will be able to generate new marketing ideas, and begin to understand how to attract international tourists, who do have multiple ideas about destinations they would like to visit. There is also a need to seek local partnerships by designing teamwork with local hotels, restaurants, tour operators, travel agencies, entertainment venues, and local tourism champions as stakeholders in the industry. “One important component in attracting more tourist is to take advantage of the current digital age we live in because content is king,” Dr Shayo explained. He added that President Samia has opened the door to the world through the Royal Tour, so that the country competes with a lot of advantages with others in the world, hence, there is a need to start thinking to offer promotions that can start enticing visitors to book with Tanzanian operators. “This can be done through things like discounts for tours, promo codes, and vouchers to help attract potential tourist to book right away. Tourist plan…so to grab economic opportunities innovation is needed. Tanzania isn’t alone with attractive destinations,” he advised. On other hand, tourism stakeholders in Zanzibar also praised President Samia for 'Royal Tour' programme. "We thank the President for her efforts to boost tourism in Tanzania for the economic wellbeing of her people. May Allah (GOD) keep her in good health," stated Mr Seif Masoud Miskry, former chairman of Zanzibar Association Tourism Investor (ZATI). He said the President has done a lot for Tanzania and she deserves praises from Tanzanians. Mr Rahim Bhaloo, current chairperson of ZATI, commented: "We congratulate our President Samia for her tireless effort in opening up the country and economy during this era of Covid-19 pandemic and her vision and understanding of the situation and market demands." Mr Bhaloo said President Samia's efforts to drive the tourism is wise, hence, it is now upon the sector’s players to take advantage and promote hospitality is an industry, which requires quick actions. “Her commitment toward s developing this industry is at a right direction and we are thankful for her commitments, "We believe and have full confidence that this Royal Tour initiative by President Samia will open up more opportunities to Tanzanians and we shall be well prepared to grab them for our people, and economy," said Mr  Bhaloo. Ms Khadija Masoud, a tourist Guide, was also excited over the Royal Tour documentary launch, saying the documentary would promote Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar.