Dear nephew Milambo Greetings from Mwanza IT is with great joy that I write to you my dear boy, and I hope that by the grace of Limatunda you are all doing fine, and that all the people of my beloved Ukumbisiganga are all doing fine. I know that by the spirit of Liwelelo you and your lovely wife and wonderful son are doing okay by the guidance of the spirits and the ancestors. I understand that Baruwani, that crafty fellow who lives in the dilapidated hut near uncle Bakari in Ukumbisiganga is coming to the city, and I hope by all means he will not come looking for me, and in case he asks you for the direction to my home, I beg you to give him the wrong address! I know that this may sound cruel coming from me, but I have all the reasons for that my dear boy, and one of them is that the fellow has a very funny character. He is a person who can talk an active lion to sleep, and he is the type of character who will go to extra lengths just to annoy you, and this also is apart from the fact that he has a major quarrel with water, and usually you can smell him before you see him. So please, just in case he asks you where I live, I allow you to direct him towards any police station, because as a man I can try to withstand his behaviour, but for a person like your aunt it might cause her great distress dealing with that kind of person! I know you are surprised that I am writing to you from Mwanza, but the plain fact is that I am here, and you guessed right, it was all your dear aunt's idea. My dear nephew, this place called Mwanza is a great and breathtaking place, and for once I nearly thought that I have finally found a place that can challenge Tabora, and indeed Ukumbisiganga in beauty. I understand that people call this place the 'Rock City', and going round you will understand why, because indeed I have never seen a rockier place, if there is such a word! But before I tell you about the beauty of this place, I believe that the journey which brought us here is worth a mention, because it was a lousy experience if I may say so. There is a certain air transport company (which I will not mention its name......for now) which operates like an up-country bus, only that this one flies and the other ones use the road. First and foremost, they did not leave on time, and there was no courtesy on their part of offering any explanation to the frustrated passengers, and secondly, the attitude of the ladies who serve inside the bus......sorry, plane, leaves a lot to be desired! They are plain rude and arrogant, and if it were possible, the whole crew and their bosses should wear face masks so that we know for a fact that we are dealing with robbers and crooks. Thanks to your aunt I am fast becoming a veteran when it comes to flying (and I am gradually getting used to the experience) and I know how the services are supposed to be. Soon after the bus.........sorry, the plane took off, two of the cabin crews started going along the isle pushing a heavy trolley, and on it there was an assortment of drinks and snacks. Because I was famished due to the fact that the last meal I had was taken the previous night, I decided to order a hefty snack and a steaming cup of coffee. I threw down a bottle of cold soda to supplement the meal, and I laid back and relaxed, waiting for the plane to arrive in Mwanza, and that is when I felt a soft nudge on my shoulder. I was beginning to doze off, I might add, because I was about to dream of aerial hotels and floating swimming pools, and I felt annoyed for the rude interruption. "Excuse me sir, shkamoo!" said the lady who a few minutes ago had looked at me with a very bored expression when I asked her to direct me to the toilet. "Here is your bill mzee," she went on, pushing a piece of paper in my face. I snatched the paper and peeped at it, and for a moment I thought the numbers on it were the registration number of the plane, because they were many! Your aunt was sleeping peacefully, but my reaction woke her up with a start, and she was just in time to grab my hand before it reached the throat of the unfortunate young lady. For the stuff that I had eaten, they were charging me almost 30,000 shillings, and l told her in plain language that I was not going to pay a single cent, because after all we had paid for the tickets. They had to call the captain of the plane, who ticked me off further because he was white and I did not understand a single word coming from his mouth. Your aunt wanted to clear the bill but I stopped her. I told those crooks that we did not have any money, and that they should have informed us that they do not offer free food in their bus……I mean plane. I told them that if they felt that angry and annoyed, they should just stop the plane and allow me and my wife to get off, but they had to remove our luggage from the boot first. "Sasa mzee, why did you eat all that while you knew you did not have any money?