AS the premiere of the Tanzania-Royal Tour documentary was set for the wee hours of today in the United States, Tanzanians expressed optimism that the initiative will play a crucial role in uplifting the economy and welfare of the nation. A few hours before the much-awaited documentary premiered, the ruling CCM party commended the work by President Samia Suluhu Hassan, saying the film speaks volume in promotion of Tanzania’s tourism attractions, trade and investment opportunities globally. “Launching of the film is among strategies being undertaken by the government to improve the economy and welfare of Tanzanians,” CCM said in a statement issued by the party’s Secretary for Ideology and Publicity, Mr Shaka Hamdu Shaka.  CCM pointed to the fact that President Samia will be making history through the launch of the documentary which was filmed in Tanzania between August and September, last year, and edited by famous American producer, Mr Peter Greenberg. The premiere which was set to take place at 07:30pm New York time (02:30am East African time) was expected to attract 400 viewers at the Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan, New York, according to a statement issued by the Directorate of Presidential Communications yesterday. The high-profile event was to be attended by heads of international business organisations and tour operators, political leaders, journalists and Tanzanians living in the United States. Also expected to attend were representatives of government institutions including Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA), Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) and Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS). There are also representatives from the private sector namely Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI), Tanzania Bankers Association (TBA), Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO) and CEO Roundtable of Tanzania (CEOrt). The historic event was set to be beamed live through Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) and later on more than 300 television channels, including Amazon and Apple Plus, which are all viewed by 86 per cent of all Americans. The creative initiative seeks to promote Tanzania’s tourism, natural attractions, culture as well as investment and business opportunities. “Through the film, which President Samia features, adorning safari outfits, will take viewers globally through natural attractions in Tanzania,” Ms Shaka said in the statement. Some of the attractions include national parks such as Serengeti, Mikumi, Ruaha, Selous Game Reserve and Ngorongoro in addition to Mount Kilimanjaro, the Stone Town in Zanzibar as well as Olduvai Gorge which is considered the cradle of mankind. Mr Shaka was also confident that the film will promote trade and investment opportunities in agriculture, energy and minerals such as Tanzanite. “CCM wishes to congratulate President Samia who is also Chairperson of the party for spearheading a number of strategies aimed at translating the CCM manifesto of 2020-2025 into reality,” he stated. Mr Shaka stressed that the manifesto has pledged to bring about economic transformation by increasing the number of tourists and revenues from the sector, creating jobs and improving incomes at national and individual level. Speaking during a virtual meeting on Sunday, the Executive Secretary of Tourism Confederation of Tanzania (TCT), Mr Richard Rugimbana, commended filming and launching of the documentary as part of efforts to promote tourism and investment in Tanzania. Mr Rugimbana noted however that while President Samia is working to market the country as a tourism attraction, it is upon all Tanzanians from all walks of life to showcase hospitality to tourists visiting the country. “We still have a huge potential of attracting more tourists but this will only be possible through promotion of our attractions both locally and internationally,” he stated. The Tanzanian Ambassador to the United States, Dr Elsie Kanza, said the North American country is among strategic markets for attracting tourists to Tanzanians. Dr Kanza explained that available statistics indicate that Americans spend a total of US 152 $ billion dollars each year on tourism in other countries globally. “The launch of the documentary and the recent meeting between President Samia and the Vice-President of US Ms Kamala Harris, have helped to promote our country,” the envoy stated. For his part, the Executive Director of Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA), Mr Shariff Ali Shariff, said Tanzania has a lot to offer to the world through the Royal Tour documentary. After its premiere in New York and Los Angeles in the United States, the documentary will be launched in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar on April 28 and May 7, respectively.