POLICE in Rukwa region have confirmed that a fugitive petty trader, identified as Chacha Nyangoso has been arrested in Dar es Salaam for allegedly chopping off the ears of his girlfriend, Doris Richard (23) for jealousy. Nyangoso a petty trader who owns butcheries in Sumbawanga Town has been on the run for more than two months. Nyangoso allegedly fled with the fresh ears he had chopped from his girlfriend Doris, who now resides with her family at Bible area here in the municipality. Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC) Ms Theophista Mallya with scanty explanation told the ‘Daily News’ during a phone interview held yesterday  that Nyangoso has been arrested in Dar es Salaam where he had gone for hiding. . "It is true, we have been informed by our counterpart in Dar es Salaam that the suspect (Nyangoso) has been arrested and we are in a process of deploying a team of police officers to Dar es Salaam to bring him here in Sumbawanga .... Then we shall inform you once he is brought here" she added. More than two months ago Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Mr Joseph Mkirikiti directed acting RPC Mr Mashenene Mayila to arrest Nyangoso. Mkirikiti issued the directive when addressing a rally at Nelson Mandela garden here in municipality. "What am waiting for is to hear is that Nyangoso has been apprehended to face the wrath of the law" reacted the RC. According to police reports Ngangoso committed the crime on December 26, last year at Eden area here in the municipality. Doricas, the victim was quoted giving her account of the ordeal, saying they had been in intimate relationship for three years. She went on to explain that on that material night her boyfriend visited her at Eden area, demanding reasons for switching off her mobile phone. "I told him that it is my habit to do so, especially at night because I normally don't want any sorts of disturbance when I'm asleep" the victim was quoted. She further narrated that suddenly her boyfriend turned violent and forced to bent forward and subsequently cut off her ears with sharp knife "He first cut off my left ear and did the same to the remaining right ear telling me that he did so that any man can either admire or marry me... He threatened to stab me if I ever shouted and then disappeared with my fresh ears ... I bled profusely, I got treated “she confided. Across section of women interviewed separately by this paper condemned the crime calling it inhumane and barbaric.