PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered Regional Commissioners (RCs) and District Commissioners (DCs) countrywide to visit markets and shops to find out actual prices of products and take swift action against traders who increase prices arbitrarily. He issued the directives yesterday in Dodoma during a virtual meeting with the RCs and DCs. The meeting was about looking at progress in preparation of the Population and Housing Census slated for August 23 this year. "We have received complaints from citizens that the prices of many products have gone up, you are chairpersons of committees for prices and taxes in your areas, so it is your responsibility to make follow ups,” Mr Majaliwa said. The Premier said there was no need for the prices of locally made products to increase, mentioning some of those products as iron bars and cement. He recalled statement made by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Ministry of Investment, Industry and Trade that they have already talked to the manufacturers and agreed to give tax relief for all domestic products. “So why the situation remains the same while there are a lot of products produced in the country? For example, in Tabora, Shinyanga and Mbeya there is plenty of rice, what is the reason behind the price hiking?” he questioned. The prime minister also directed them to research and evaluate why the prices of products like spinach go up and come up with findings. “If there are places where the prices go up arbitrarily, you have to make sure the prices go down to help the Tanzanians,” he ordered. On the other hand, the Prime Minister has directed those leaders to encourage people in their areas to effectively participate in the forthcoming Population and Housing Census. "Motivating people is important. Let us use various stakeholders in our areas such as Members of Parliament (MPs), councillors, sports club leaders and other social leaders in order to help motivate the people,” he emphasized. Earlier, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Mr George Simbachawene, said 85 per cent of Tanzanians have been made aware of the ongoing exercise of putting postcodes and residential addresses whereby 9,490,959 addresses have been identified and incorporated into the National Physical Addressing (NaPA). He said a total of 810,919 buildings have so far been counted countrywide. For his part, Director General of the Tanzania National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Dr Albina Chuwa, said the work of allocating geographical areas for the census has been completed by 100 per cent in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.