THE Head Coach of the National U-17 Women team, Serengeti Girls, Bakari Shime believes his team will win their Sunday return leg match against Burundi despite the absence of the team’s lethal striker, Clara Luvanga. The brave U-17 Girls host Burundi tomorrow at Amaan Stadium here boasting a 4-0 lead as they stamped a voluminous win against the hosts Burundi in first leg match at a stadium in Ngozi, North of Burundian capital, Bujumbura. Clara Luvanga who netted seven goals for Serengeti Girls in their previous matches against Botswana and Burundi has been barred to play after accumulating two yellow cards. Speaking to the Daily News on Saturday, Shime said the team’s determination is there even in the absence of Luvanga as everyone in the squad is capable of doing a good job. “Clara has accumulated two yellow cards, therefore she won’t be allowed to play. But we have many quality players who can fill her void, like Aisha Juma who missed the game in Ngozi,” explained the coach. Shime said while focusing on their return leg match with Burundi, they have started to assess their next opponents. He said they may play with a winner of a match between Cameroon and Zambia after clearing Burundian hurdle. The Under-17 Girls will have a downhill task over Burundi following their 4-0 victory away at Ngozi, Burundi. To secure the victory over Burundi girls, they have camped at Zanzibar since April 17th this year. “We have been training since we returned from Burundi. We have camped in Zanzibar; we are prepared to face Burundi and win.” He further noted he has high hopes for his girls and believes they will win. “Just after we won in Burundi, our team began training for the return leg in Zanzibar. After this round, we will face either Cameroon or Zambia; the next round match will be tough, so we have started drilling for the two of them,” said Shime. He assured Tanzanians they will do well as the team has been well drilled and the players’ morale is high. “The team is well drilled; we are geared to win over opponents as we are determined to snatch the World Cup ticket.” After the match against Burundi, he added that Serengeti Girls will set up a ten-day camp in Turkey to prepare for the next game against either Cameroon or Zambia. The match will be staged on May 19th, 2022, before the return leg in June this year. If Serengeti Girls succeed in ousting Burundi, they will face the aggregate winner of a match between Cameroon and Zambia. Clara Luvanga is the tournament’s leading scorer with five goals, followed by Aisha Juma and Neema Paul with three goals each. Africa will be represented by three teams in the World Cup Finals for girls U-17 players in India from October 11th to 30th this year.