THE Dar es Salaam Yacht Club, a member of Tanzania Union of Industrial and Commercial Workers (TUICO), has taken the management to High Court in Dar es Salaam for allegedly defamation. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, Advocate Raymond Mweri, who is representing TUICO in the matter, said his client is demanding a compensation Sh500 million for the repercussions. He said the case will start in the next two weeks, stemmed from statements made by the company's manager. Explaining in detail the basis of the case, Advocate Mweri said in 2018 misunderstandings arose between the management of Dar es Salaam Yacht Club and their staff through Tuico. "The workers were accusing the management of Dar es Salaam Yacht Club on various issues including abuse of power as well as the use of unethical tactics in an attempt to persuade some of their employees to withdraw themselves from TUICO membership. "The conflict continued until October 2021, when the media quoted the leader of the Dar es Salaam Yacht Club as saying that his staff had been used by criminals," he said. He said the statement made the TUICO branch of the Dar es Salaam Yacht Club have a hard time. He added that by recognizing there are existing laws in the country, which provide a mechanism for how the offense of humiliation could be dealt with, that's why they went to court. "Then they took legal action last year in December, they sent a demand notice to Dar es Salaam Yacht Club management in order to defend the interests of their membership in TUICO since the statement of being labeled as criminals had humiliated them. "The basis of the demand notice was to inform them that they had been abused and to give the Dar es Salaam Yacht Club time to rectify the act which TUICO interpreted as a heinous act. "They also directed them to apologize through the media that was used to issue the statement and the Dar es Salaam Yacht club to compensate Sh 500 million for the repercussions they received from the statements," he said. In addition, he said this in January, the management of the Dar es Salaam Yacht Club responded to the demand notice and protested the allegations and then TUICO decided to take steps to file a formal lawsuit in accordance with existing laws in the country. We have complied with the law of ‘The Media Services Defamation proceeding rules’, which prescribes the steps to be followed when an institution or person has been subjected to verbal or written defamation. "In March this year we have filed a lawsuit which within the law and within seven days we have filed a petition at the Dar es Salaam Yacht Club and the high court has filed an affidavit stating the procedure followed in filing the claim form including the address and the parties involved on that petition, ”he said. He said due to ongoing procedures, they now have a petition that they will send to the other side (Dar es Salaam Yacht Club) and be prepared to wait for the case to roar. "The issue of the argument that the statement issued by the Manager of Dar es Salaam Yacht Club whether it is an offense in accordance with the law or not, we leave that to the court. "Now our responsibility is to make sure we prove to the Court that these words uttered by the Dar es Salaam Yacht management that TUICO have been abused and deserve compensation," he said. He said they have decided to take such a step especially considering TUICO has members nationwide, so basically being bullied is tantamount to humiliating all members.