YOUNG Africans have described the return to action of Yacouba Sogne and winger Jesus Moloko as a boost to the team ahead of their upcoming NBC Premier League matches. Yanga have since scaled up their preparations ahead of their 19th league fixture versus Azam on Wednesday at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam as the race towards the league’s diadem escalates. .It will be a challenge between the current league’s toppers Yanga against the third placed Azam in one of the thrilling league matches of the campaign. Speaking yesterday in the city, Yanga’s Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli said Moloko and Yacouba have began normal training procedures with their colleagues in camp. “Their recovery is a big boost to the whole team as we head to the end of the season hence it will give Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi a wide range of options to select players to be featured for a particular game,” he said. He again disclosed that they are now waiting to get full report from the team’s doctor concerning injuries sustained by Feisal Salum and Khalid Aucho who are the latest players to be on the injury list in the team. “Both Aucho and Feisal got injured while at national team duties as such; we are just waiting to get full report from their doctors before they are further assessed to verify the degree of their injuries,” he said. Giving an update about Feisal injury recently was Yanga’s Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze who said doctors have recommended him to stay out of action for ten days while insisting that they will not rush to feature him. “The ten days he has been given will be completed at the end of this week but we do not want to get him back immediately on the field. We want to do thorough examinations before allowing him back into the business,” Kaze said. He also said they expect to make further examinations on their Ugandan midfielder Aucho who is also troubled with injury and has not been deployed in the Premier League matches for a while. However, Azam are also on the ground making sure that this time around, they do bag all three points from Yanga to revenge the painful defeat they suffered in the first round at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium and become the first team to upset Yanga this season. It will, therefore, be more like a finale encounter basing on the nature of the two sides and the level of investment they have done in their respective squads by signing high profile players capable to do the intended job.