MWALIMU Julius Kambarage Nyerere is credited to have turned the then young Tanzania into an ‘Omnisports’ nation, the legacy that still holds water today as Tanzanians celebrate his 100th anniversary. The nation’s icon, the Father of the Nation, indeed left a landmark in the sports sector that he will share generation after generation. Sports have been among the big beneficiaries under presidency of Mwalimu Nyerere. Many Tanzanians witnessed those significant improvements that excelled in athletics, boxing, and football. A few individuals brought pride to the nations during his reign by picking several medals in Olympics, Commonwealth and All Africa Games: Filbert Bayi, Suleiman Nyambui, Juma Ikangaa, Gidamis Shahanga, Habib Kinyogoli, Emanuel Mlundwa, Michael Yomba Yomba, Haji Matumla being the most brilliant ones. Tanzania’s success during Nyerere’s reign has been a mark that athletes are struggling to meet today. The cause of this achievement was the country’s response to the Head of State’s announcement in 1973 that Olympic or Club games, mainly athletics should be a national sport. The country massively embraced a multi-sporting venture that opened doors to other sports in global class events. Though it might look strange today, following the new awareness, Tanzania even fielded cycling in the Olympic Games of Munich, and the legendary rider George Mulamula was the country’s envoy. Daily News had the opportunity to speak with Mlundwa, the Africa Flyweight legend. He explained that sports did well during Mwalimu Nyerere’s time as it started from the grass-root level, where sports were encouraged in schools. “At that time, sports was part of the school timetable. Accordingly, all variety of sports had the same weight. Students had the opportunity to choose athletics, boxing, football, basketball, netball or triple jump. In addition, the government distributed sports equipment to each district, thus encouraging students in schools from primary to secondary schools to participate in sports.” Mlundwa added during that time; there had interschool competitions through which they scouted players who formed national teams. Besides schools, the government chose several places to serve as community centres for sports. “Through the inter-school competitions, national teams were formed for the global tournaments. The athletes in school had time to practice and time to study.” Furthermore, Mlundwa shared his experience, asserting that he joined the national boxing team in secondary school when he was 17 of age. He had the honour to participate in the national team while studying; wherever he was supposed to join the national team, the school offered him permission. Apart from Mlundwa, Filbert Bayi confirmed he developed his skills through grazing animals and participation in sports at school. “I used to participate in sports activities; I played football, long jump and athletics. In 1968 I participated in regional competitions, and I did well.” 1973 was a banner year in Tanzania’s sports history and two men, a middle-distance runner, Filbert Bayi and a boxer, Habib Kinyogoli, were arguably the ‘figureheads’. Bayi beat the Kenyan world champion, Kipchoge Keino, in the 1,500 m race of the All African Games of Algeria to win the country’s first gold medal, almost ten years since independence. In the same event, Habib Kinyogoli added a silver medal after a controversial loss to Ugandan, Omollo. The two medals forced the late President, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, to publicly announce athletics as a ‘national sport’. In 1980 Moscow Olympics best described the success of Mwalimu Nyerere’s seed of Omni-sporting. The country’s historical event was the Moscow Olympics. Besides earning Tanzania its only two medals, the games saw fielding a hockey team for the first time, as commended by an official in Tanzania Olympic Committee(TOC), Muharami Mchume. Moreover, it was the first team entry in the world-class event as the rest had always been individual performers. Mwalimu Nyerere reached the move after the football team, Taifa Stars, had a dismal show in the event after playing three matches and garnered only a point following their 1-1 draw with Ivory Coast. The team lost 3-1 to Nigeria in the opener before suffering a 2-1 loss to Egypt in their second match; the results were not good, but it was an honour for Tanzania to qualify for the African Cup of nations. The senior national team Tanzania made history by securing a place in the Africa Cup of Nations after a 39-year absence from the continent’s top-flight tournament. Tanzania has continued to fight for strengthening the sports industry by gaining representation in major international championships. Mlundwa expressed dissatisfaction with the state of boxing and sports in Tanzania but commented on preparations to be held early from the grass-root level if we need medals. “Preparations must begin early, and investments should be encouraged in young talents. Players should realise that it is a great honour to represent the nation in Olympics and Commonwealth Games.” Last year after the Olympic games, Bayi, on his side, said that the performance of sportspersons in Tanzania was below par, citing poor governance in sports and lack of professionalism in management as the major let down. Bayi, the Tanzanian Olympic Committee (TOC)Secretary- General, said many athletes’ development process is based on coaching or skill development models, sidelining the management. “Most athletes in Tanzania are finding it hard to excel at the top level because of poor management. Athletes’ pathway to success needs coaching and wellorganised management,” insisted Bayi. With the guidance of coaches, athletes’ training and competition opportunities help hone their skills. Still, they equally need proper guidance from management, physiotherapists, doctors and dieticians to improve their performance and enhance their physical and mental readiness. “It is important for national sports governing bodies, governments, TOC and private partners to keep working towards supporting the sporting career of our athletes,” insisted Bayi. The Mwalimu Nyerere era is a story I know, and it is a story I will tell about the success of sports in Tanzania during the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere era. I will tell a story I was told, read and watched videos about the successes of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere’s leadership in developing sports in Tanzania. As so, if Mwalimu had still been alive, we would have been celebrating his 100th anniversary. This story I will share today is the story I will narrate to my daughter, an account of the Father of the nation, and his images will flash in her eyes.