THE Parliamentary Committee on HIV/Aids has advised the government to step up efforts to educate community members about Noncommunicable Diseases (NCDs) on their preventive measures to save lives and enhance the country’s economic development. Tabling the recommendations on budget estimates for the Prime Minister’s Office for the 2022/2023 fiscal year, Committee Chairperson, Fatma Toufiq, said it was crucial to start raising awareness from pre-primary schools through tertiary education. In addition, she said the government in collaboration with the relevant sectors should ensure that there is adequate education for the community from the grassroots level on the diseases. “Nationally, NCDs continue to be a burden. “The committee recognised that there are citizens, inmates, and detainees who are suffering from ailments including diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure, and heart disease,” she stated. The committee also advised the government to keep providing adequate funds for the treatment of the diseases, citing the significant economic burden they impose on the country. NCD burden in Tanzania is increasing very fast and it is attributed to adverse effects of globalisation, rapid unplanned urbanisation, smoking, alcohol consumption, and an increasingly sedentary lifestyle. According to the Ministry of Health, the burden of NCDs has increased from 19 per cent of the total Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) in 1990 to 34 per cent of total DALYs in 2015. World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that out of a total of 409,000 deaths that occurred in Tanzania in 2016, 33 per cent were due to NCDs. DALYs is a measure of overall disease burden, expressed as the number of years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death. It was developed in the 1990s as a way of comparing the overall health and life expectancy of different countries. In terms of AIDS control, she called for the government to consider allocating its funds and minimising reliance on donor financing, especially because some donors have begun to limit Tanzania’s AIDS support and sometimes set strict conditions. “With the government continuing to allocate funds for the AIDS Trust Fund (ATF), the committee continues to emphasize the need to discover potential sources of self-sufficiency rather than relying on donor financing,” Ms Toufiq added. On tuberculosis (TB), the committee recommended that the government should keep an eye on the situation and encourage local governments to continue allocating funds for TB interventions. Ms Toufiq further stated that the community should be actively involved in identifying and reporting TB patients to appropriate places as early as possible. The committee also advised the government to allocate funds for Drug Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) that can be used for several activities including empowering addicts economically by providing them with entrepreneurship skills, affordable business loans, agriculture, tailoring, and animal husbandry and life skills. She said on nutrition interventions, the Committee urges the relevant authorities to ensure nutritional intervention's in prisons and especially for people with special needs should be given priority. “It is also advised to find stakeholders who will help provide prisoners and detainees better nutrition as they do in other areas for example in AIDS to provide them with medication,” she explained.