THE Legal Service Facility (LSF) has launched an access to Justice Stakeholders Mapping report that suggested the need for stakeholder collaborative efforts on improving justice provision. A report that was launched by the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs, George Simbachawene also indicated the importance of paralegals in assisting provision of justice and legal aid. “Paralegals are among the most important stakeholders in the provision of legal aid services alongside the courts, police, local government authorities, religious leaders and traditional leaders,” read part of the report. Speaking during the event held in Dodoma, Minister Simbachawene commended the LSF for coming up with the report, saying the government would continue working together with stakeholders on improving services in the legal sector. Launching of the report was held during the opening of a twoday symposium on legal aid that was co-hosted by the LSF and the Constitution and Legal Affairs Ministry. Going under the theme “Legal Aid for a Just and Inclusive Society”, the symposium aimed to assess implementation of the Legal Aid Act, 2017 by also looking at challenges and success that have been attained in the past five years. “This is a very important event that brings together stakeholders in the legal aid sector in the country to discuss how to improve implementation of the Legal Aid Act, 2017,” said the minister. For her part, the LSF Chief Executive Officer, Lulu Ng’wanakilala said the event was crucial in development of the legal aid sector as it helps stakeholders understand success that has been attained so far. “Also, it’s a platform to analyse challenges and available opportunities that can be explored to improve access to justice in the country in general,” she said. She assured of continued effort on facilitating provision of legal service to the people. “LSF works closely with the government of Tanzania at all levels, development partners, organisations involved in the provision of legal aid, including paralegal services and other likeminded stakeholders,” added Ms Ng’wanakilala. The symposium is also attended by legal aid providers from three neighbouring countries of Kenya, Uganda and Malawi for the sake of sharing experiences and deepening cooperation on the sector.