YOUNG Africans-Namungo match fever continues to mount ahead of their NBC Premier League match at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. The game will precede other two Premier League matches between Geita Gold and KMC at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita and Dodoma Jiji who will host Mbeya City at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma in a late kickoff encounter set at 21:00. All the lined up fixtures are tense as each team is urgently seeking maximum points to keep climbing up the log as the season is heading to last stages. For instance, both Geita Gold and KMC are tied on 24 points, hence a win to either of them will produce 25 points apiece. Also, the match between Dodoma Jiji and Mbeya City is going to be an interesting one as they are separated by 4 points with Mbeya City occupying 6th slot with 25 points while Dodoma Jiji sit on 14th place with 21 points. As such; generating three points is really very important in these matches of the late stages, mainly for the teams at the middle of the table. Due to the record, the match between Yanga and Namungo continues to herald the weekend’s showdown basing on the fact that neither Yanga nor Namungo has managed to grab a victory when they faced each other in the league. This is where the difficult part of the match is centered and a good judge will be the normal 90 minutes of play when the final product will be unleashed to determine what the scoreboard will look like after the encounter. However, the game is of much importance to Yanga's Head Coach Nasreddine Nabi as it marks his one-year anniversary at the helm of the Jangwani street side, hence a win will be a deserved bonus to him. The Tunisian trainer has endured a good season at the club as he is searching to win his first Premier League title and he seems to be heading to the right direction towards achieving his target. "The only player likely to miss the game is Feisal Salum who despite training with his colleagues, has been recommended to continue resting until he fully recovers. "The good news is the return to action of Khalid Aucho, Chico Ushindi and Yacouba Sogne even though the latter is still under fitness programme, can withstand competitive games," said the club's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli. Commenting on tomorrow's meeting, Bumbuli said they respect Namungo as one of the good teams in the league but he insisted that they are ready to produce another victory after the match. On his part, Namungo manager Steven Josiah said they are aware that it will be a tense game but was quick to make it clear that they have all necessary resources to emerge winners and return back home with three points.