The status of pulses keeps on changing. Understanding dried legumes as a food to be taken into consideration getting a hand of support as days unfolds. Influential figures like Bill Gates keep on insisting that synthetically made legumes as a replacement for animal meat, in essence telling the global citizenry, “Stay away from that type of meat”. This subject has arguably been receiving little attention from the mainstream media for quite a long time until last month when Fox News – the leading American cable news channel – held a dialogue quoting an Op-Ed title, “Replace Meat with Lentils to beat inflation”. Lentils are also part of the pulses family and in some quarters the word (lentils) is used interchangeably with legumes or dried legumes for that matter. So these turn of events, plus other factors not mentioned above, are highly likely to affect the demand and supply of pulses, not in Tanzania alone, but the entire world. Currently, soybeans prices, which have gotten quick fame locally in these two years following hiked demand in India, have now rallied more than 25 per cent following crop downgrading in South America, slowed supply from Ukraine and a little extent Russia. So anyone thinking of getting involved in this type of crop should start those preparations hurriedly as signs show that demand is likely to keep growing. Demand for soybeans may also be exacerbated by increasing local demand. As of now, soya is sold in the region of 2,000 Shillings in Dar es Salaam, a price that could hardly be imagined three years ago. The local market for soya is expanding rapidly due to increased demand for soya cake by the animal feed industry and edible oil requirements. Since the inception of the Russia-Ukraine war prices of edible oil has gone mad, in some instances hiking by 50 per cent, any increment of edible oil supply will bring relief to the market without a doubt. Green grams trade is on the spree at the moment. At the price of 1,100 Shillings a kilo in Dar es Salaam is at its lowest position, especially when compared to the way it began at the beginning of the season when it traded at around 1,500/-. The decline was largely due to the world market dynamics. As things stand the current price appears to stabilize around that region, thanks to the anticipated increased supply of green grams from the Mtwara and Lindi regions during this very month. Russia-Ukraine has reshaped how Europe should spend. Soon after the war breakout, there has been increased spending on Military comparison which was last seen during the cold war. In some countries like Romania that expenditure has even gone up by 25 per cent. Both Russia and Ukraine are the leading exporters of pulses to Europe with this unfavourable situation European countries are rushing to get the best alternatives. In Germany, the Government has set aside a budget for subsidies for farmers. Any farmer who will plant an additional 100 – acre block for protein crops like peas and beans will earn 300 Euro subsidies. All of this is intended to increase the local supply of muchneeded food. However, this can be vouched for a future rather than now, current supply must come from other countries like Tanzania which is Africa’s leading producer of beans. How do we reap those opportunities it depends on our preparedness to grab them aggressively or we can sit back and have Kenyans come here and buy all the beans and peas before they export them to Europe as Kenyan produce at our own expense. Pigeon peas on the other hand are also in good shape this year as India has opened its windows for the importation of the same till next year. Nothing can be so sweet in the ears of farmers knowing that their products will not get rot on the farm because a consumer somewhere is ready to pay a good price for the same. Therefore, generally one can say that this year’s outlook for pulses is more than brighter and if there was any person who is a little hesitant to get into the sector should now start with full confidence that the business is ready to pay handsomely.