THE International Football Association (FIFA) has officially opened a ticket application window for the World Cup finals to kick off on November 21st this year in Qatar. The statement was released on Wednesday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) through its Instagram page. According to the statement, the ticket application window will be open from April 5th, 2022 to April 28th, 2022. "For fans who need tickets to watch the World Cup finals in Qatar will have to send their application via “FIFA.com/tickets”. The successful applicants will be notified through their email before or until May 31st this year also, the payment process will be received through their email and it will be effective May 31st, 2022. Meanwhile, Tanzania U-17 Girls team, Serengeti Girls are engaged in serious training in Bukoba, Kagera ahead of their World Cup qualifying match against Burundi in Ngozi mid this month. The team’s head coach, Bakari Shime said Bukoba is a perfect place for training as its weather is very conducive. Serengeti Girls will play their first leg match against Burundi on April 16th this year Ngozi, a town on northern side of the Burundian capital, Bujumbura. A total of 24 players are involved in the mission under Shime. Serengeti Girls qualified to play in the second round after seeing off Botswana with 11-0 aggregate victory. Shime defended the choice of Bukoba as a training venue saying it’s weather is similar to that of Ngozi where they will go to play. “The weather in Bukoba is very similar to Ngozi where we are going to have a match; I have to make more preparations in advance as I believe the game will not be easy," he said. After their match in Burundi, the teams will meet again on May 1st at Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. If the Serengeti Girls manage to oust Burundi they will face the winner between Cameroon and Zambia and if they cross that stage they will qualify for the World Cup. Africa will be represented by three teams in the World Cup Finals to be staged in India from October 11th to 30th this year.