IF he were alive, the founding father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere would have clocked 100 years of his birth date today. Over two decades have passed since the iconic leader departed but his legacy lives on. Tanzanians are today celebrating his life and service for the country. Mwalimu, as he was fondly known, is being referred to as the true son of Africa who planted seeds of patriotism among people. Mwalimu Nyerere who was born on April 13th 1920 at Mwitongo Village in Butiama District, Mara Region, led the country as President for 23 years from 1962 to 1985. Between December 9, 1961 and 1962 he served as the Prime Minister. Speaking ahead of Nyerere’s 100th birthday, President Samia Suluhu Hassan sang praises over Tanzania’s first president, attributed Mwalimu’s philosophy and vision as key factors that have made Tanzania a peaceful and united country. “During his lifetime, Mwalimu Nyerere taught Tanzanians on the importance of patriotism and building national peace, unity and harmony for sustainable development,” said President Samia at the Nyerere Leadership School in Kibaha District, Coast Region, over the weekend. President Samia noted that Nyerere’s vision and philosophy are still alive as the government under all phases has continued to implement development plans that were initiated in the first phase administration. Remarking on Nyerere’s centennial, scholars and veteran politicians expressed the need for the country to continue to honor his legacy. The former Director General of Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) Colonel Rt. Joseph Simbakalia said the father of the nation played a crucial role in building the national economy through industrial strategy. “He was a man of action, Mwalimu wanted the economy to grow sustainably, as a result he came up with an industrialisation strategy as well as ensured the country has sufficient stock of industrial material,” noted Mr Simbakalia. He said, in a quest to improve the economy, Mwalimu Nyerere came up with an idea of building hydroelectric dams, the Julius Nyerere Hydroelectric Power Project (JNHPP), which is now under construction. “Mwalimu Nyerere left the country with a proper system and institutions that are capable of furthering the national economy, all these have to be transferred to the younger generation for future prosperity of the country,” he said. He went on to ask all Tanzanians to make better use of the ongoing flagship projects that are the brainchild of Mwalimu Nyerere on boosting the economies of individuals and the country at large. For his part, former Minister Stephen Wasira said Mwalimu Nyerere is being remembered for his patriotism for which he laid proper foundations for the country. He also urged Tanzanians to honor Mwalimu Nyerere by maintaining peace, unity and harmony. “As he was in favor of national unity, Mwalimu Nyerere was so bitter about all kinds of discriminations based on colour, tribes, religious or any status, we have to honor this legacy that was left for us,” noted Mr Wassira. Speaking, Prof Issa Shivj said among other things Mwalimu Nyerere promoted equality among Tanzanians despite financial status. He viewed Nyerere as a man of fairness and justice for all; he set a good example of how leaders should be, by putting forward national interest and honor public offices. US Ambassador to Tanzania Dr Donald Wright also paid growing tribute to global citizen, Nyerere. Dr Wright also used the occasion to pay tribute to the life and legacy of Mwalimu Nyerere, who would have turned 100 this year. “I join with all Tanzanians and people around the world in paying tribute to Nyerere’s leadership during a lifetime spent in the public eye: As a young crusader for independence from colonialism; as Tanzania’s founding father and president for over two decades before willingly stepping down; as the force behind the scenes stewarding the country into a new era of multi-party democracy and economic liberalism; and as an elder statesman and promoter of peace and stability around the region,” he said.