THE Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) has said the country is set to reap substantial benefits from admission of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) into the East African Community (EAC). On March 29th 2022, DRC was admitted into the regional bloc during the 19th Extra-Ordinary Summit of the EAC Heads of State, which was held virtually and chaired by the current Chairperson of the EAC, President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya. TIC says it believed that the move will expand investment opportunities between Tanzania and DRC, increase trade and shipments to and from the mineral-rich country at Dar es Salaam and Tanga ports. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday, TIC Public Relations and Communication Manager, Pendo Gondwe said that DRC is a strategic investment partner to Tanzania. She said that at a period between 1997 and December 2021, DRC has invested a total of 20 projects in Tanzania worth 746.9 million US dollars. Gondwe specified that the 20 projects of DRC have been invested in various sectors including commercial building, tourism, human resources, manufacturing, services and transport. According to Gondwe, TIC is pleased with the inclusion of DRC in the EAC because when they (TIC) promote Tanzania they mention the market that Tanzania has in EAC and in the South African Development Community (SADC), as a way to give market confidence to the people who want to invest in the country. “This is a big opportunity for Tanzanians especially on value chain addition because the country will have a reliable market in DRC… allcustom barriers will be removed. It will also be easier to discuss about tariffs and non-tariffs and other investment or business barriers because we are now in one bloc,”said Gondwe. Several other local commentators described the admission of DRC as an economic milestone for Tanzania in particular and the regional grouping as a whole. An expert on diplomatic relations, Prof Kitojo Wetengere, was optimistic of increased trade volumes through transit of exports and imports from the DRC through the ports of Dar es Salaam and Tanga. “Tanzania is also poised to increase its exports to DRC by selling food stuffs and other locally produced products. The country will also have a potential of boosting investments in DRC in various sectors of the economy,” he remarked. Available figures indicate that DRC has a population of over 90 million people, and that at present nearly 30 per cent of what is consumed in the DRC comes from China while 11 per cent is from East Africa. 