THE National Insurance Corporation (NIC) announced on Wednesday that its Board of Directors has approved 1.5bn/- as a dividend to the government in this financial year. NIC pre-tax profit has more than doubled, being pushed up mainly by proceedings from the general insurance portfolio. NIC, the state-owned insurance firm, said in its financial statement that the pre-tax profit jumped from 33.65bn/- realised for a year ending June 2020 to 73.1bn/- of last June. The general insurance raked in a pre-tax profit of 64.97bn/- compared to 8.12bn/- generated from life insurance at the end of June 2020. NIC, the first insurance company in the country established in 1963 had a net written premium of 57.49bn/- against 45.47bn/- at the end of June 2020. The profit also went up as management cut expenses especially on administrative and acquisition costs by almost 5.0 per cent to 41.35bn/- from 43.49bn/-. NIC Managing Director, Dr Elirehema Doriye said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that due to profits earned, a total of  13.55bn/- was allocated for dividends, with 12.05bn/-allocated as part of capital maximization and 1.5bn/- as central government dividend. “In our Annual General Meeting held on Wednesday the board and Treasury Registrar Office resolved that a portion of the dividend be channelled into strengthening the corporation by maximizing its capital,” said Dr Doriye. Over the years, he said the corporation has grown in various systemic changes and service delivery and has grown in innovation to ensure customers receive the best possible service in a competitive and growing insurance industry. According to him, currently, NIC pays claims within five working days. They have also put effort into the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) to ensure they reach their customers with ease. NIC Board Chairperson Laston Msongole said the corporation has gone through several challenges in the past, but they have worked hard to become a financially strong public institution that competes with rivals in the market and fulfills its obligation to the owner, including paying out dividends. "For the past four consecutive years until June 2021 it has grown steadily and this has been confirmed by the report of the Controller Auditor General (CAG)," he said. According to CAG report, for 2018, the corporation recorded a profit of 3.63bn / -, 2019 earned 7.79bn / -, 2020 earned 33.65bn / - and the year ending June last year it earned 73.10bn / - before tax. "NIC is strong and is in a position to do business in a competitive market without any problems. We have created the environment that with this profit, we have increased corporate capital to an extent that will enable us to do more business," he said. The Treasury Registrar, Mr Benedicto Mgonya said he attended the annual NIC meeting to find out the results of the performance and what he found was encouraging. “The entity has changed a lot and its performance has improved and this is confirmed by the CAG report for 2021,” he said. In terms of profits, insurance and investment revenue, he said has increased and the organization has reduced unnecessary spending and thus continues to build trust among Tanzanians. "In our discussion today through the entity's calculations the profits made partly we have decided to consolidate the corporate capital and partly send it to the central government as dividends," he noted. NIC is one of the public institutions, established in 1963. It is the oldest insurance company in the country. The Corporation’s total assets, year-on-year, grew exponentially to 391.49bn/- at the end of last June from 350.35bn/- pushed mainly by treasury bonds and investment properties. The investment in treasury bonds ballooned from 50.07bn/- in 2019/20 to 108.1bn/- in 2020/21 while properties shot from 93.1bn/- to 113.9bn/-. The re-insurers share of insurance contract provision also supported total assets growth after jumped from 11.91bn/- to 16.79bn/-. Thus NIC cemented its market position due to a sound asset base and good reinsurance arrangement, which gives a large underwriting capacity. The corporate underwriting is well and adequately protected by the most solid yet advanced and first-class international reinsurance partners through both treaty and facultative reinsurance.  