PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan and the President of World Bank Group (WBG), Mr David Malpass, held positive talks over the last weekend on efforts by the government to improve conditions for the private sector in Tanzania. During their meeting at the Bretton Woods institution’s headquarters in Washington DC, in the United States, the two also discussed support by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to the manufacturing sector and public-private partnerships. “President Samia and the WBG boss also talked about the support of the bank for the people of Tanzania through International Development Association (IDA) 19 and IDA20 resources, including in the areas of agriculture, energy, and human capital,” according to the statement by the international lender. According to a statement released by the World Bank in Washington over the weekend, President Malpass was also glad to hear President Samia’s thoughts regarding ongoing business regulatory reforms. “President Malpass thanked President Samia for her commitment to closing Tanzania’s gender gap and empowering women, and congratulated her on Tanzania’s decision to provide equal access to education for pregnant girls and young mothers. “President Malpass affirmed to President Samia, the WBG's strong support for further efforts on gender equality and women’s empowerment,” according to the statement. Meanwhile, the Vice-Chairman of the ruling party CCM in Tanzania Mainland, Mr Abdulrahman Kinana, has hailed President Samia for her recent working visit in the United States, where she also met with top leaderships of the Bretton Woods institutions. Apart from meeting the WBG boss, President Samia during her visit in the US which also included premiering of Tanzania Royal Tour documentary in New York and Los Angeles, she also met with Chair and Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Ms Christalina Georgieva. Speaking in Kilimanjaro Region yesterday, Mr Kinana said President Samia has done lot since she assumed the presidency over the past one year. “During the past one year, we have witnessed a lot of progress under President Samia, the foreign trips have enabled her to meet with various leaders,” he remarked. Mr Kinana pointed to the fact that the meeting between President Samia and the Vice-President of the United States, Ms Kamala Harris, spoke volumes given the fact that the North American country is among super powers in the world and among Tanzania’s development partners. The veteran politician was equally impressed by the meeting between President Samia and President Malpass of the World Bank since the lender provides soft loan for a long period of time. “The World Bank provides soft loans which can be refunded in a period of about 30 years, when you get such funding you can implement development projects and repay over a long period of time. “What is more, the meeting with the head of IMF is equally important since the institution does not only dish out loans but it also provides accreditation which can enable countries to access loans from other sources,” Mr Kinana said while addressing CCM members in Kilimanjaro region. Mr Kinana said the visit by President Samia in the United States is as well crucial in promoting tourism since she was able to meet with various international players in the tourism industry.