THE Controller and Auditor General (CAG), Charles Kichere, has tabled to the National Assembly, the annual audit reports for the year ending June 30, 2021, uncovering loop holes in several public institutions, which drained cash from State coffers. Among them, a stunning irregularity in the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), where the government made a loss of 14.41m/- through fake documents showing 56 men had given birth through cesarean section. The new report shows that there was massive squandering of public funds by unscrupulous public officials in the Local Government Authorities (LGAs), Central Government, and Public Institutions (PIs), among others. Addressing journalists immediately after tabling his reports in the august House, Mr Kichere said during 2020/21, there were 56 claims at NHIF, showing that men were given emergency services for delivery through Cesarean Section, while such services ought to be provided to pregnant women. “Also, my audit findings showed that 444 NHIF members got services for Full Blood Picture (FBP) twice a day and for 30 times at just one medical facility and also, I realised there were repeated payments and those which indicated that members with visual impairment received spectacles more than one time while they are supposed to have them at least once per year,’’ said Mr Kichere. At the Kilimanjaro Airport Development Company (KAD- CO), the CAG report revealed that about 2.37bn/- and US dol- lars 7.04 million (16.13bn/-) that was collected from airport departure charges was not handed over to the Commissioner General of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) as per the requirement of the law. The report further revealed the failure by the National Identification Authority (NIDA) to collect revenue from fees accrued from using information which is under control of NIDA, thus losing 7.36bn/-. The money was to be collected from public institutions that received the service. The CAG report also shows that the country lost 3.7bn/- after 41 public institutions paid Procurement Entities contrary to the tax regulations, which wanted the institutions to be given electronic receipts. The CAG audit of 185 Local Government Authorities shows that about 17bn/- was collected by 147 LGAs but was not deposited to banks. Also, Mr Kichere said, revenue collection agents from 12 LGAs collected 3.31bn/- but the money was nev- er deposited to banks. “About 24 LGAs made procurement amounting to 3.84bn/- outside the annual procurement plan, while another 40 LGAs conducted procurement pro- cedures amounting to 5.37bn/- without a legal competitive process by bidders,’’ he said, adding that another 59 LGAs did procurement without approval of the procurement board. According to the CAG, the National Audit Office (NAOT) handed over 999 different audit opinions out of which 185 were provided to LGAs. Others are PEs (195), Central Government (308), Political Parties with Permanent Registration (19) and Development Projects (292). “Out of these 970 were unqualified opinion (97.10 per cent), 81 were adverse opinion (9 per cent), 19 were qualified opinion (1.90per cent) and four others were disclaimer of opinon (0.40per cent). He said out of 185 audited financial statements of LGAs, 178 received unqualified opinon reports, six received qualified opinions, and one was slapped with an adverse opinion report. In the new report, about 195 public entities were audited, out of which eight were given qualified opinion, while three received disclaimers of opinion. “In the central government, two were given qualified opinion reports, and one was slapped with adverse opinion while the remaining were unqualified opinion,’’ he said, adding that he also provided opinion to 19 po- litical parties out of which, quali- fied opinions were three, adverse opinion were four while two political parties could not account for their expenses thus receiving disclaimer of opinion. In the new report, about 292 development projects were audited, and all of them received unqualified opinions.