MORE than 4,000 residents of Bassotu village in Hanang District of Manyara Region and nearby areas are set to benefit from the Nalgonda Water Treatment Plant, thanks to Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL), Water Aid and the government for financing the project. Apart from Bassotu village, the Nalgonda Water Treatment Plant with the capacity to serve 14,000 people will provide safe, clean water to Dangaida, Viendamudiga, and Dilna villages in Basuto Ward. SBL’s Corporate Relations Director, John Wanyancha said at the inauguration ceremony that, “This progressive Water of Life project was undertaken in collaboration with the government and Water Aid Tanzania to improve health, increase economic productivity, empower women and allow girls to pursue their education because now, they no longer need to trek for hours to find clean water.” The Water for Life Project is part of similar initiatives that the brewer has undertaken in the Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Mwanza, Tanga, Ruvuma, Dar es Salaam, Coast, and Dodoma regions, providing over one million beneficiaries with clean and safe water. Hanang’ District Commissioner, Janeth Mayanja commended SBL for being at the forefront in providing timely support to community development projects across critical areas and sectors in the country. “This is a lifesaving project, where the villagers will be at the forefront to protect and preserve this project for future generations,” she said. The water supply from Lake Bassotu to the community required urgent treatment after laboratory tests revealed that the levels of fluoride in the water was above recommended World Health Organisation (WHO) standards. The projects’ installed water treatment capacity of 900,000 litres in 12 hours is sufficient to meet and exceed Bassotu Ward’s current average daily water demand of 700,000 litres. Water Aid Country Director, Anna Mzinga said they would keep coming up with new ideas for smart, practical solutions that work and can be used on a national and international level. “Between us, we have the commitment, experience, resourcefulness, and connections to change millions more lives – until everyone everywhere has what so many of us take for granted,” she said. A trained operator from the village will work in collaboration with Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RUWASA) technicians and engineers to ensure a safe and consistent water supply. Water quality assurance will be conducted at a newly constructed laboratory in Manyara.