PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has appointed Ms Rosemary Slaa as a new chairperson of Medical Store Department (MSD)’s board of directors. Prior to her new role at MSD, a statement issued by Director of Presidential Communications Zuhura Yunus on Thursday states, Ms Rosemary was a senior officer at PricewaterhouseCoppers (PWC). The President also appointed Mr Mavere Tukai as new MSD’s Director General. Before being assigned to this new role, Mr Tukai was overseeing the USAID Global Health Supply Chain Technical Assistance project. The statement added that Her Excellency has also named Raymond Mndolwa as a new director for the National Irrigation Commission. Prior to the appointment, Mr Mndolwa was working at STC Construction Company where he was overseeing the firm's operations. Speaking after receiving the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Report for the year 2020/2021 in Dodoma, last month, President Samia ordered a general overhauling  MSD in order to improve its efficiency and tap on emerging opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry. She directed Chief Secretary Ambassador Hussein Kattanga to ensure the restructuring is done with immediate effect to enable the country to have a strong department that will ensure efficient delivery of medicines and medical supplies in the country. “MSD should undergo general overhauling as we did with Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco) ... this should be done immediately, the restructuring should involve the top management, procurement and other departments," President Samia insisted. Samia issued the directives in Dodoma yesterday after she received the Controller and Auditor General Report for the year 2020/2021, which among others indicated poor performance of MSD which affected the delivery of health services in the country. President Samia expressed her disappointment with MSD’s performance, noting that the department had signed a deal to be the major supplier of medicines, medical and laboratory equipment to 16 member states of the Southern African Development (SADC). She said that if the MSD has failed to supply medicines and medical supplies in the country, she wondered how it will manage to fulfill its new role in SADC. "SADC reports show that the regional bloc is still confident with Tanzania and discussions are underway to give Tanzania another tender of supplying medicines, medical and laboratory equipment in SADC," the president said. After appointment of  MSD’s board of directors chairperson, the Minister responsible for Health will be required to form a board by appointing  board members.