SIMBA received a heroic welcome at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dares Salaam on Monday night from passionate fans after the end of their tough mission against Orlando Pirates in South Africa. Though the contingent looked upset, a handful of the passionate fans who turned up at the airport took it differently as they kept praising them, dancing while flashing out hugs to players and officials, all symbolizing a warm welcome. Towering center-back Henock Inonga and Head Coach Pablo Franco were among the team members who were cheered by the passionate fans when they made their way to the club’s bus. The country's envoys narrowly missed their target of reaching into the CAF Confederation Cup semifinals after following a 4-3 post match shootouts loss to Orlando Pirates at Orlando Stadium in Soweto on Sunday. The 10-manMsimbazi giants fought hard until the last minute when they had to surrender the race for the last four slot after a brave fight. They really deserve credit for the way they played as they looked capable of grabbing a semis spot. In his remarks, Simba’s shot-stopper Aishi Manula said this is not the time to point fingers at each other for their exit but always to aim higher for a better chance in the future. "To be a big club, you need to undergo several stages and be great both on and off the pitch. To me, there is no need to continue debating whether the goal we conceded was offside or not. "We did whatever we thought was necessary to give us the good results we wanted but could not make it. We now have to prepare ourselves to do much better in the upcoming editions," he said. The outstanding away performance by Simba has compelled their former star Abdallah Kibadeni to shower them praises saying even though the primary objective of cruising into the semis was not fulfilled, they were almost there. "As a Simba fan, we are upset for failing to achieve the set up target and the team had a defensive mindset which worked well during the match but at the end, we were still bundled out," Kibadeni said. He then urged Simba to acquire experienced players of these international matches in order to stand a chance of breaking their record of failing to go beyond the quarterfinals phase. "The most important thing for Simba players to understand is the importance of these CAF Interclub games because that is their job. Had they won Sunday's game, they could have been close to achieve their targets," he said. Additionally, the former Taifa Stars player seized the platform to urge Simba to rely much on the domestic players other than seeking to beef up the squad with foreign based players, a thing he said is not healthy for the growth of the country's football.