FAILURE to carry out diagnosis on time has been mentioned as a major factor fueling high number of deaths resulting from blood cancer as 80 per cent of 40,000 people diagnosed per year die from the disease. This was said on Wednesday by Health Ministry Permanent Secretary, Prof Abel Makubi while officiating at the opening of 8th Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS) wide disseminating Symposium which was held at university premises. Under the theme ‘Research and Training: A Bridge Towards Quality Care for Blood Cancer Patients’, the event involved health experts, policy makers and students. According to Prof Makubi, delayed diagnosis is commonly preceded by misdiagnosis and results in patients presenting advanced disease stages that are less likely to respond effectively to treatment. “This symposium is aimed to increase awareness on blood cancers and to educate the community through various researches conducted and to identify challenges related to cancer problem,” he said. Prof Makubi said the government has upgraded health care in diagnostic facilities including Ocean Road Cancer Institute, Bugando Medical Centre, Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) and Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), which provide cancer treatment. “We are calling on the community to go to health facilities when they see symptoms such as leukemia, which is the third most common cancer,” said Prof Makubi. Among the symptoms, he said, include anaemia, fever and weight loss. He said it should be everyone's routine once per year or six months to check their health and to diagnose non-communicable diseases including cancer. During the same event, the PS handed over prizes to health experts in the country to acknowledge their contributions in cancer treatment. The awarded experts include Dr Khamza Maunda from Ocean Road Cancer Institute, Dr Pius Magesa of MNH and Dr Trish Scanlan, who was dealing with cancer treatment in children. A lecturer and researcher, from the Department of Hematology and Blood Transfusion MUHAS, Dr Ahlam Nasser said it is important to provide adequate education within the community so that people can come forward and get tested early. “Most patients come for diagnosis and treatment for cancer late, and it becomes a challenge to get better after treatment. Blood cancer poses a significant economic burden to individuals and societies and the nation,” she said. According to her, the department has been striving to improve health care and outcomes of patients with blood cancer and other blood related disorders through integration of training, research, consultancy and advocacy. MUHAS Vice-Chancellor, Prof Andrea Pembe said the forum was aimed to provide research results towards providing better blood cancer services. He promised to bridge the gaps in diagnostics and treatment, leading to improvement in survival outcomes and quality of life for blood cancer patients. The Chairman of Blood Cancer Foundation of Tanzania, Mr Gerard Masalago, who was also a blood cancer survivor, said early diagnosis helped him to get treatment and recover fast.