Ensuring sustainable development Africa is among the most important tasks for the global community in the 21st century. While the sources of future prosperity may differ for various nations, inclusive economy growth is the common value presuming, to name a few, the gender equality in terms of access to jobs, wages and labor conditions. With the help of international companies operating on the continent, women in several African countries, including Tanzania, are able to successfully unlock their productive and creative capacities. It’s Not Business-As-Usual When the government of Tanzanian granted a license for uranium mining to Mantra Tanzania Ltd. back in 2013, a number of concerns in terms of environmental safety and jobs for local communities was raised. Substantial uranium reserves naturally gave rise to questions regarding the benefits local population would gain from its’ development. Nine years after the mining has not started yet, but Mantra Tanzania is already playing a prominent role in supporting local initiatives in the Ruvuma region of Tanzania. The company successfully performs a number of significant corporate social responsibility tasks, including infrastructure (road construction and water supply), programs for local suppliers, anti-poaching initiatives in Nyerere National Park donations of specialized equipment for schools and hospitals etc. Starting from the very preparatory phase of the Mantra Mkuju Project, social commitments were of greatest importance for the company, a subsidiary of the Uranium One Group, an international mining division of the Russian state atomic energy Сorporation Rosatom. Being a major stakeholder in the global nuclear industry, Rosatom and its subsidiaries strictly adhere to the principles of ecological, social and governmental responsibility (ESG). Rosatom contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a low-carbon electricity company, developing nuclear, hydrogen and wind energy. Promoting the agenda of sustainable economy growth, Rosatom pays a great attention to gender equality as one of the crucial UN Sustainable Development Goals. Therefore, the protection of rights and the upholding of interests of the most vulnerable groups of locals, including girls and women in difficult life situations is principal for the company's social activity. Craft Mission Since 2016 Mantra Tanzania supports the regional business project for tailoring and accessories Mkomanile Craft, which brings together girls and women in difficult life situations. The principal goal of the initiative is to improve the life conditions of women living in the settlements of LIkuyu in the Ruvuma region. Totally, more than 50 women have taken part in the project since its launch. Mkomanile Craft gives a chance for single mothers, orphans and girls who could not get a full-fledged school education due to financial distress or early pregnancy. The lack of opportunities for girls to complete their schooling is a systemic problem in Tanzania. Unfortunately, it’s still a common practice to drop pregnant girls from public schools on charges of “violating moral standards” without being able to return to classes. As private schooling is expensive and out of reach for most families, such an unexpected situation may become a sentence for life. This is why the initiatives aimed at creating alternative ways of obtaining education and professional development for young women are so important for African countries. Within the Mkomanile Craft project, two production groups have been shaped - first, for tailoring clothes, home accessories and bags, and second, for making hand-knitted clothes and school uniforms. The first group unites young women who were previously trained in sewing. Girls who do not have the appropriate skills and work experience can join the knitting group - they are given the opportunity to have a necessary training. Currently, 16 participants are involved fulltime in the project, further expansion of activities is planned. Health Is the Capital A more recent example of the social mission of Rosatom in Africa is the joint project with the South African Tourism Ministry and the Russian Embassy to South Africa for supporting young women from Mpuluzi High School in Mayflower. This initiative is aimed to resolve such a delicate sanitation problem as women’s period poverty. According to the expert estimates, roughly 7 million South African girls on their period often miss one or more days of school, totaling up to 20 percent of the school year, and some drop out altogether. The cultural shame associated with menstruation often prevents women from studying and work. Many also cannot afford personal hygiene products because of the “pink tax” (a markup on women's products similar to men's). Period poverty also affects psychological wellbeing as women become embarrassed of their own bodies. Breaking the taboo around a normal biological process and providing access to personal hygiene products are urgently required to African women. This October, Rosatom started it’s program in South Africa with organizing a discussion on female hygiene and providing the girls at Mpuluzi High School with sanitary products. The latter were supplied by Palesa Pads, a manufacturer of reusable hygiene pads with a shelf life of up to 5 years, providing a reliable and environmentally friendly long-term solution to a critical problem faced by young women across the globe. The biggest problem of the period poverty is that there shouldn’t be a necessity to choose between buying food and period products. The other issue is that not enough people or companies talk about it. This initiative doesn’t only support girls, but also raises awareness. 