A TOTAL of 14.3bn/- has not been collected from key sources of revenues in 120 Local Government Authorities (LGAs) countrywide, according to the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), Mr Charles Kichere. Mr Kichere stated that the findings were contained in his financial year audit report for the year that ended on 30th June, 2021. The audit was done in 185 LGAs, looking at their financial statements, compliance, procurement laws and regulations. He said the missed collection included the unsettled bills listed in the register book or claim invoices, the details that were obtained from the debtor statements available in revenue collection system. "The key sources are particularly renting fees from rented shops and kiosks at bus stops and markets, sale of land plots, levies on agricultural produce and liquor business licences," he explained. He said the situation was contrary to the Local Government Finance Act of 2009 that requires councils’ treasurers to ensure proper financial management and accounting procedures and verify the accuracy of all claims in comparison to the collections of revenues, storage and depositing of the funds in banks. Out of the total uncollected 14.3bn/-, 4.9bn/- was not collected in 23 councils from levies on agricultural produce, 3.7bn/- in 57 councils from property tax, 536.6m/- in 18 councils from sales of land plots and 47 councils failed to collect 961.7m/- from issuance of liquor business licences. The CAG cited other sources as renting kiosks in markets in 13 councils, whereby 852.1m/- was not collected. Three councils that failed to collect 158.6m/- and 28 council could not collect fees on hotels amounting to 113.6m/- He said the revenues that have not been collected by the local authorities could result in losses because no efforts were made to recover thems. He called upon the local authorities to put in place credible systems for identification and effective collection of revenue collection in all sources of incomes. "The authorities must ensure that those revenues are collected immediately," he insisted. On the other hand, Mr Kichere spoke about mining and transportation of building minerals, saying the Kisarawe District Council did not collect 6.8bn/- from a contractor who mined and transported such minerals from Kibwemwenda village, something that was against the law which requires that council should collect 6,000/- from each tonne of the building minerals such as sand, pebbles or stones. "I urge local authorities to sign agreement with the contractors so that the revenues are collected in time. Failure on that would lead to loss,” he advised. He further ordered councils’ treasurers to take effective charge of financial management and accounting procedures and verify the accuracy of all financial records in authorities.