The Royal Tour documentary, which was first launched in the New York yesterday and then Los Angeles, Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar will unquestionably unlock Tanzania to the world. Daily News reporter, ABDUEL ELINAZA, interviewed Dr HILDEBRAND SHAYO, a banker cum investment. Question: What is the importance of tourism and its economic value for a country like Tanzania and what makes President Samia’s promotion central and its role weighty? Answer: Significance of tourism in any country appears from the various benefits and advantages it brings to any host nation for instance Tanzania in this case. In my view, real prominence of tourism comes from its nature and how it is defined and structured and how hospitality industry in the hosting nation responds. Tourism when taken genuinely contributes towards complete growth and development of a country: first, by bringing numerous economic value and benefits; and second, facilitating in build nation’s brand value, image and identity. That is why we always do underline that tourism industry goes beyond attractive destinations to being an important economic growth contributor. Question: Why does it have so much importance for every country—like Tanzania? Answer: Why every country looks at tourism not just as attracting tourists but as a platform which supports economic growth, is what keeps various nations to come up with means to ensure their attraction destinations are safe and tourists attain their value for their money whenever they decide to spend for holiday. Tourism is extremely interesting and nations such as Tanzania can benefit a lot. Apart from being an activity, it is an industry and an important growth driver for a nation, its economy and for its social progress that help to spread the wealth. Over time following launching of the Royal Tour, Tanzania will begin to witness tremendous economic value some seen directly and some indirectly because it touches and impacts several industries directly and many more indirectly through tourism spend. Tourism is one of the important sources of employment generation and foreign exchange earnings for a country. Due to all this tourism will continue to gain much more economic importance for Tanzania for many years to come only if we as a nation make sure our destinations are safe, and those providing services to the sector abide to standards that govern the industry. It is always important to remember, what tourists spend on consumption on various services and products becomes the revenues of tourism industry that add fiscals to the government. Tourism industry is important for the benefits it brings and due to its role as a commercial activity that creates demand and growth for many more industries. Tourism not only contributes towards more economic activities but also generates more employment, revenues and play a significant role in development. Question: Based on analysis and understanding, what are practical and tangible benefits likely to flow to Tanzania after President Samia’s launching of the Royal Tour documentary? Answer: At any measure one may take, unquestionably, tourism is a sector with special potential in any nation for generating value additions that spur across many value chains and thereby contributing to sustainable development in that country’s economy. It is important to remember that tourism is not only one of the largest economic sectors and growth industries in the world, but it also additionally employs large numbers of people and offers incomes to individuals alongside very different qualification levels. Implication, multiplier effects can be realised by intensively uniting tourism with nearby sectors such as agriculture or crafts, thus boosting the local economy. This also means to tourism induced impacts on employment and income-generation. Question: What does spurring value chain mean in this specific context and how does it help pave the way to more players to benefit as whole? Answer: Practically notwithstanding the field of activity in which a development related to tourism takes place and which sector is involved, promotion of tourism, the like of what President Samia has done will create ground for the inter- linkage of various economic sectors that overall can generate considerable impact for the Tanzania economy. Promoting the Tanzanian attractions in this way may consequently be an expedient strategy in the development of the sector that was seriously affected by covid-19 pandemic due to travel restrictions. From an economic point of view, the more money tourists spend, and the more of that money stays in the economy, the more economic value is added by the tourism and hospitality sector. This ingenuous formula springs to two important strategies for stimulating national tourism value added benefit, one, increasing turnover from tourism or increasing the proportion of national value added in relation to overall value added and two, to open-up a broad range of options for development that can help to find the right leverage to help achieve individual project objectives that will boost the sector. This is somewhat because the tourism sector is highly complex, offering myriad different services and exhibiting linkages with other sectors of the economy. Question: As President Samia opens all the country's attraction destinations to the world, should we now be prepared to enjoy economic value of tourism industry competitively? Answer: As stated earlier on, tourism industry is important because it brings many benefits and advantages. But if I must emphasize on one key aspect which straightaway, precisely and simply foci the importance of this industry then it is this. The economic contribution and the economic value this industry brings, or the value tourism adds to the economy like ours for instance, Tanzania is the single biggest factor. In fact, all the major economic, financial and even other reasons that make this industry important can be categorised under this one factor. Whenever you consider the GDP contribution of tourism, the employment generation, the tourists it brings, the business it generates and above all wide scale boost it gives to the industries of any country such as Tanzania. All these benefits point to one and only one most factor that makes this industry valuable. And it is the economic value that tourism industry brings. Tourism boosts the revenue of the economy, creates thousands of jobs along value chain, direct and indirect, helps to develop the necessary infrastructure and plants a sense of cultural exchange between the foreigners and citizens analyst, on the economic side of the programme and its benefits Tanzania.