WATER feared to be contaminated with harmful chemicals leaked from North Mara Gold Mine for several hours last Saturday, causing panic to the local communities surrounding it. This reporter witnessed a leakage point along the road which is mainly used by gold mine’s heavy vehicles, a few meters away from the River Tigithe which flows into Mara River. "The pressure of water leaking is worrying and it flows into River Tigithe and to people's residential areas,” a local resident said at the scene. Member of Parliament for Tarime Rural Constituency, Mr Mwita Waitara, rushed to the scene and made mobile calls to the North Mara Gold Mine General Manager (GM) Mr Apolinary Lyambiko. In the course, the GM arrived at the scene shortly accompanied by several mine officials and said: “This is a challenge that had occurred…a pipe has burst.” However, the leakage was contained by the gold mine that is operated by the Barrick Gold Corporation, while the GM was at the scene. Mr Waitara, local leaders and citizens as well as the GM together walked several meters away to witness how the contaminated water was flowing into River Tigithe that in turn flows into Mara River, before discharging its content into Lake Victoria. Showing different reactions, some residents seemed worried claiming that already they had used the contaminated water by the time they were informed about the leakage. "We have no other option of sources of water, we only rely on this river (Tigithe) and some of us and children have just been swimming and taking shower in the river," a woman, who was found washing her clothes at the river at Nyamikoam sub-village, said. Mr Waitara appealed to the communities living near the river where the leakage and pollution occurred to take precautionary measures pending results of the laboratory test. "This water has a problem, but the degree of poison it contains we don't know by now,” Mr Waitara who had in the past served as deputy minister of state in the Vice- President's Office said. Several senior government officials including experts responsible for environment and minerals were yesterday expected to visit the gold mine to assess the situation.