Samia Suluhu Hassan has said the recent mini-cabinet readjustment aimed at putting the right person at the right docket. She said the changes were necessary as she is still observing performances of her subordinates at this time when the country is taking initiatives to recover the economy that was affected by Covid-19 pandemic. The Head of State made the statement on Saturday shortly after she swore in three ministers, members of the ethics council as well as the government administrator general and the deputy administrator general. Three ministers who took oath include George Simbachawene who becomes the Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office-Parliament, Policy and Coordination, Dr Pindi Chana (Natural Resources and Tourism) as well as Dr Damas Ndumbaro (Constitution and Legal Affairs). Prior to their new dockets, Mr Simbachawene was the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs, while Dr Chana was the Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office Parliament, Policy and Coordination whereas Dr Ndumbaro was the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism. “The decision to re-adjust the cabinet is based on who fits where, the aim is to improve the economy after it was affected by Covid-19,” said president Samia in an event that was held at the Chamwino State House in Dodoma. President Samia said she moved Mr Simbachawene to the Prime Minister’s Office based on his experience in parliament and government activities. “I’m confident that you will assist the Prime Minister and fit in serving the position of Chief Whip in the Parliament,” she explained. And for Dr Ndumbaro, President Samia said since the appointee is a lawyer by profession and has enough experience in the sector, he will fit in the Constitution and Legal Affairs Ministry. Regarding the transfer of Dr Chana to the Natural Resources and Tourism docket, the Head of State said the decision was reached based on the experience that the former has in diplomacy and law. “Dr Chana is a lawyer and has experience in diplomacy, and in the management of natural resources and tourism it is about diplomacy, I thought she will fit more here compared to the former docket,” said President Samia. She then called for continued efforts by her subordinates to deliver to the maximum expectations for the interest of economic growth and sustainable development. “You have to work in line with the oath and moral consciousness for the sake of improving the economy of our country, let’s speak one language,” she noted. Speaking of the ethics council, President Samia said they had to take oath and start working immediately because they were appointed in 2019 but they were yet to take oath of office. Members of the ethics council who took oath include Judge (rt) Ibrahim Mipawe Chairperson, and two members, Peter Ilomo and Susan Mlawi. She called on the council to stay on the law and refine the ethics of members of the civil servants so that the government can have a smooth ride in delivering services in a proper manner for the national interest. “As the government on our part we are going to improve our Public Service College and use the leadership college in shaping our leaders,” she said. The event was also attended by Speaker of the National Assembly Dr Tulia Ackson and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who apart from commending the appointees, asked them to work in line with their oath and deliver to the maximum expectations of their appointing authority and the national interest.