As Tanzanians commemorate the 100th birthday of the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, educational experts describe the Father of the Nation as a reformist who hated ignorance. Himself a teacher by profession, MwalimuNyerere, immediately after independence declared ignorance, disease and poverty as the main three obstacles to the country’s development goals. To be precise, he mentioned the three obstacles as the main enemies of the nation, with each enemy being subjected to rigorous campaign for its eradication. But academicians such as MsGloria Mbogoma state that being an educator and a Head of State, Mwalimu Julius questioned the rationale of the education system inherited from colonialism which perpetuated exploitation and underdevelopment in post-colonial Tanzania. The late MwalimuNyerere noticed that the education system, after the country gained her political independence in 1961, did not sufficiently meet the needs and social objectives of Tanzanians. According to MwalimuNyerere, colonial education was offered to a few individuals to meet the objectives of the colonizer. He proposed that schools must not only become integral parts of the community and society but also carry out activities designed to make them financially self-sufficient. The missing link prompted MwalimuNyerere to come up with an Education for Self-Reliance policy – with the goal of re-examining and modifying the education system so that it could meet the objectives of Arusha Declaration which was formulated in 1967. “Education for Self-reliance emerged as an attempt to revolutionize the educational system, making it more relevant to Tanzanians, while using education as a vehicle for eliminating socioeconomic inequalities in Tanzania and cultivating a culture of self-reliance,” says MsMbogoma in her paper for the Master Degree submitted to the University of Pretoria. Prof Derek Mulenga from University of South Florida says MwalimuNyerere introduced Universal Primary Education (UPE) programme in 197Os in keeping with its “education for self-reliance” policy. The decision to introduce UPE was necessitated by the fact that after independence 85 per cent of the population was illiterate and extremely poor. Hunger, widespread disease and a low average life expectancy of just above 40 years, were also major obstacles. Periodic droughts, food shortages and limited access to international aid further complicated matters. “By necessity, the rural population – which made up 90 per cent of the population – would be the driver of the new economy. Yet they were so scattered that it was difficult to extend the social services needed to improve their living conditions and agricultural productivity,” says Prof Mulenga. Vijiji project, which was the Ujamaa specialized agricultural programme that helped centralize agricultural production within the villagisation process, also helped in implementing universal education programme. Project officials ensured the population of the Ujamaa villages never fell to less than 250 households and agricultural units were divided into 10 cell units that allowed for communal living and simple representation when relaying information to TANU officials. Implementation of Ujamaa Village programme also enabled the government to increase schools and other infrastructures for social service provision. Provision of education was also guaranteed in the constitution as a basic human right. Under UPE programme each child aged seven years was obliged to go school to acquire education that was provided freely. Massive enrolment of children into schools necessitated MwalimuNyerere to come up with a strategy of preparing teachers to bridge the gap that emerged. ADULT EDUCATION As part of the education reforms after independence, MwalimuNyerere introduced Adult Education, focusing on eradicating illiteracy in the country, given the fact that at independence, over 70 percent of adult Tanzanians were illiterate. Experts in educational philosophy like Prof Abel Ishumi from the University of Dar es Salaam say the object of adult education in Tanzania was not merely to teach literacy, but to help adults find solutions to other problems such as hunger, ignorance, disease, and soil erosion. Adult education was seen as vital to the spread and implementation of ujamaa or African Socialism in the countryside. The experts say Nyerere’s philosophy on adult education, lifelong learning and education for liberation was in many ways a natural development of his ideas embodied in Education for Self-Reliance, particularly those relating to some of the inherent limitations and inadequacies of formal schooling. They say that Nyerere’s conviction about the role of adult education as a means of development and as a part of development has been recognized by many development planners, economists and educators. In addition to imparting knowledge and skills, he looked on adult education as basically a political process. According to Nyerere, one of the primary and most significant functions of adult education was to arouse consciousness and critical awareness among the people about the need for and possibility of change. The second function or stage of adult education is to help people to determine the nature of the change they want and how to bring it about.