SECONDARY schools students in the city have benefitted from science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) related training, courtesy of Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and a local IT firm. STEM project coordinator Ibrahim Jefferson told this paper that the training cum expo aimed at equipping students with requisite skills of tackling problems confidently and boosting self-confidence among the students. According to Mr Jefferson, the training helped to motivate and inspire young people to generate new technologies and ideas. “The excitement among the students spoke volume on how eager they are to embrace the digital world,” he explained. An ICT teacher at Arusha Girls School, Ibrahim Kayanda oozed confidence on the training saying it would effectively improve students' learning outcomes, such as academic learning achievement, student motivation, attitude, problem-solving skills. “I’ve already seen this with my students if their academic performance is anything to go by,” he observed. On his part, Arusha District Administrative Secretary, Nyangusi Laizer expressed gratitude to Empower and KOICA for such an initiative which he said gives people skills that make them more employable and ready to meet the current labour demand. The DAS urged students to take full advantage of the knowledge offered with a view of implementing it academically and in life. “Information Technology knowledge is crucial for this generation as it enables students to explore new subjects and deepen their understanding of difficult concepts, particularly in STEM,” he added. In collaboration with KOICA, Empower, a private company, which trains students on IT and STEM conducted STEM awareness fair which saw the participation of five secondary schools within the Arusha city. The fair aimed to raise students, teachers and government’s awareness on technological era and digital gap especially for the public schools. Students were during the expo introduced to a number of programmes and applications such as Robotics, App Inventor, Scratch, Scratch for Arduino, Arduino, Rachel, Python, HTML and CSS, Kitkit School and Drone.