AFRICAN countries need to be more familiar with potential advantages and risks of digital currencies and crypto assets to make informed decisions on their use, the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba has said. The minister said at the opening of a virtual conference on crypto assets and central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday that much was still to be learned from the digital currencies and crypto assets were rapidly gaining prominence in many countries. "One of the central issues that I would wish this conference to discuss and provide a clear guidance whether countries should put in place regulatory framework for monitoring and supervision of the transactions or discourage the use of these assets," Dr Nchemba said in his opening remarks of the virtual conference, jointly organised by the IMF and the Bank of Tanzania to commemorate the 20th anniversary of AFRITAC East. The Central Bank is finalising preparations of a business case for CBDC and evaluation of crypto assets which will require reforms in legal and institutional structures to enable requisite governance of digital financial services, the minister said. He, however, said there was much still to be learned about the technology behind them, how they work and their implications to the financial sector and economies in general.  "In my reading of crypto assets, I have not come to a conclusion on which perspective is desirable at this stage of their development. Therefore, I am looking forward to getting views of the imminent speakers on this topic to help us expedite our national strategies and actions," said the minister. "My quest for a thorough discussion on crypto assets is also grounded on the fact that, although studies estimate the African continent to have less than five per cent of the global value of crypto assets, their rapid growth portends to significant transformation in digital space." "Notwithstanding their potential risks, by circumventing traditional banking services, crypto assets are considered to help level the economic playing field and expand finance options to underserved customers." IMF Deputy Managing Director, Bo Li, said the conference provided an opportunity to share country experiences and understanding about what might work and what pitfalls to avoid in regulating crypto assets and designing CDBCs. "International coordination and collaboration remain vital in these rapidly evolving areas...IMF is playing its part in international efforts to develop appropriate policies, regulations, and standards, and we are gearing up to provide capacity development support to our members," he said. He said crypto assets, where Bitcoin is the most famous example, had grown rapidly with market capitalisation reaching US$2.3 trillion by end-2021. There has been substantial use of the crypto currencies in Tanzania, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and Ghana, he said. "But there are risks. Insofar as their movements are correlated with those of other financial instruments, crypto assets could lead to the amplification of shocks. "They could, in some circumstances, replace local currency as a medium of exchange, a store of value, and a unit of account—a risk which has been dubbed as “cryptoisation.” And they can be misused for money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illegal activities," he said. The Central Bank Governor, Prof Florens Luoga said some central banks were at conceptual discussions and research on CBDCs, others already have set the ball rolling to experimentation phase, and a few have launched. Crypto assets have increasingly become common, and due to their ramifications, there is a quest for interventions through regulations. "It is in this context that we are going to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Centre by having this two-day seminar on CBDC and Crypto Assets in Sub-Saharan Africa," he said. AFRITAC East was the first of what are now six IMF regional capacity development centres in Africa. The regional centre has been providing technical support and advice in macroeconomic and financial management, not only to Tanzania, but to all member countries in the region which has immensely contributed to promotion of strong and sound financial institutions and general macroeconomic stability, said Prof Luoga. 