THE Court of Appeal has substituted the 30-year jail term imposed on rapist, Said Bakari to life imprisonment for having carnal knowledge of 12- year-old girl for sodomy. Justices Gerald Ndika, Rehema Kerefu and Panterine Kente reached into a decision after noting an illegality of the sentence passed against Bakari, the appellant by the High Court after convicting him of unnatural offence. “We invoke our revisional powers bestowed on us under section 4 (2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act, and set aside the illegal sentence of 30 years imprisonment imposed on the appellant (….). We instead, substitute it with the mandatory sentence of life imprisonment,” they declared. In their judgment delivered recently at Mtwara Court’s Registry, the justices also dismissed the appeal lodged by the appellant to fault findings of the High Court, which convicted him of two counts of rape and unnatural offence. Previously, the appellant had emerged a winner before the Lindi District Court where he was charged with the two counts and was acquitted by the trial court for the prosecution’s failure to prove the charges beyond reasonable doubts. The prosecution was aggrieved by the trial court’s decision and took the matter to the High Court. Having revisited the evidence tendered by both parties, the High Court reversed the findings. It was at that point in time when the appellant crossed over to the Court of Appeal to defend his innocence. He advanced several grounds of appeal, attacking the High Court Judge for accepting the evidence of prosecution witnesses, including the victim, whom he described as unreliable for having marred by contradictions, hence, the case against him was not proved to the required standard. In their judgment, however, the justices of the appeals court, the highest temple of justice in Tanzania, described most of the grounds of appeal advanced to have lacked merits and dismissed the appellant’s appeal in its entirety for devoid of merit. They specifically revisited the testimonies of three girls and found that there was no doubt that they clearly explained the incident, while the victim narrated how the appellant sexually assaulted her four times in his house when his wife was away. According to the justices, the victim clearly demonstrated how the appellant used to commit the offences and that she did not raise an alarm because the appellant used to cover her mouth and threatened to slaughter her if she disclosed the ordeal to anyone. They stated that the two girls explained how when they were passing nearby the house of the appellant they heard the victim lamenting. Upon entering inside the house, the two girls testified to have found the appellant putting on a short trouser while the victim was seated on the bed. “As rightly submitted by (the prosecution), in cases involving sexual offences the best evidence is that of the victim. The sole evidence of the victim can be safely relied upon by the court to sustain a conviction,” the justices said. They were also mindful that under those grounds, the other appellant's complaint was to the effect that the four crucial prosecution witnesses were not credible as their evidence was tainted with contradictions and inconsistencies. However, having revisited the testimonies of such witnesses and considered the contradictions and discrepancies complained of, the justices could not, with respect, consider them to be material to the extent of affecting their credibility and reliability. Moreover, it was their considered view that the appellant's assertion that the case was framed up against him due to the existing dispute between him and the victim's mother was highly improbable in the circumstances of the case. The justices noted from the record that during the trial the appellant did not cross examine victim and other prosecution witnesses on that aspect. “It is trite law that, a party who fails to cross examine a witness on a certain matter is deemed to have accepted it and will be estopped from asking the court to disbelieve what the witness said, as the silence is tantamount to accepting its truth,” they said.  The justices concluded that they could not see any reason to differ with the finding of the first appellate court and in totality were satisfied that the High Court adequately evaluated the evidence on record and arrived at a fair and sound decision. In the District Court of Lindi, the appellant, Said Bakari, was charged with two counts of unnatural offence and rape. It was alleged that on diverse dates and months of 2014 and December 8, 2014 at Mikumbi area within the Municipality and Lindi Region, the appellant raped a girl child aged twelve (12) years and had carnal knowledge against the order of her nature.