TANZANIA Breweries Limited (TBL), the dominant beer industry’s net profit has gone up by 149.6bn/- last year equivalent to 68 per cent from 89.08bn/- posted in 2020 pushed up significantly by prior year deferred tax adjustments. According to the TBL’s financial statement of the year, revenue rose by six per cent due to the growth of both beers and slightly in spirits trade volumes. During the period under review, revenue increased to 1.01tri/- from 961.8bn/- registered in 2020. The company said also that the decline in the employee costs and other savings from operating and administration costs contributed to improvements in operating margin by 2 per cent to 19 per cent compared to 17 per cent last year. The statement stated that the company’s operating profit rose by 19 per cent due to volume performance and efficiencies in operating costs. TBL said that sales and marketing costs rose by 14 per cent, driven by the increase in sales and marketing activities to drive the growth, compared to the same period last year. The company has reported cash generated from operations was 272.2bn/-, of which 62.8bn/- was utilized to pay corporate tax, 50.8bn/- to pay capital expenditure, 84.1bn/- used in financing activities including payment of dividends, 75.5bn/- and the remaining funds were retained for future activities. The company said is confident that the strong company portfolio of brands and renovated commercial strategy can deliver consistent growth and long-term value creation, even in challenging years such as the one faced in 2021. Moreover, the statement said the focus of the company for the next year will be to strengthen the partnership and keep building a better and stronger business and insisted that business cannot exist without farmers, clean water, healthy communities, strong suppliers and a thriving, diverse and inclusive workforce. TBL expressed its gratitude and admiration to the management and employees for their efforts and support as well as the customers, consumers and all stakeholders for the loyalty and continued trust in TBL brands. TBL has won many accolades in Tanzania. These include the 2015 and 2016 Employer of the Year Award; 2015, 2016 and 2017 Manufacturer of the Year and are the Largest Taxpayers in Tanzania.