THE Controller and Auditor General (CAG) is concerned with the inadequate funds that have been issued to finance maintenance of roads in the country. In an audit report for the year 2020/21 that was submitted to President Samia Suluhu Hassan earlier this month, CAG Charles Kichere said insufficient budget disbursement hinders proper maintenance of the infrastructure. “The audit team noted that road fund revenue had been inadequate to finance maintenance of roads in the country,” said Mr Kichere in his report. Despite the efforts made by the Ministry of Works and Transport through Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads) and the Road Funds Board (RFB) to ensure roads are maintained in the country, it was noted that most roads in the country were still in poor condition. “Presence of roads with poor condition has remained fairly a constant phenomenon from 2016/17 to 2020/21,” he said. He said the audit team noted that in 2016/17, roads with poor condition stood at 13 per cent, while in 2017/18 it was 14 per cent. From 2018/19 to 2019/20, the percentage of roads with poor condition was 13 per cent and in 2020/21 the country had 13 per cent of trunk and regional roads which were in poor conditions. He said unpaved roads were mostly affected due to the fact that the impact of maintenance conducted was not realised after destruction from rains which resulted in loss of gravel materials, leaving the roads in bad conditions. According to him, they also noted that from 2016/17 to 2019/20, disbursed funds from RFB to Tanroads ranged between 73 per cent and 95 per cent of the annual approved amount. “This is an improvement of 12 per cent. The overall disbursed funds to Tanroads were 80 per cent of the approved operational plan budget. He explained further that despite an improvement in the allocation of funds from RFB to Tanroads, the actual amounts of the required maintenance funds (unconstrained budget) could not be attained. Mr Kichere said on average, Tanroads required 1.027tri/- for maintenance of roads in the country, but the budget approved for it was only averaged at 553bn/- (VAT inclusive) and 453.2bn/- (VAT exclusive). This, according to the CAG, translates to 54 per cent and 44 per cent of the average budget VAT inclusive and exclusive respectively as a result of the budget ceiling set by the road fund. The audit team also noted that the financing deficit continued to increase due to the increase in road maintenance demands owing to the increased road network in the country. “An accumulated backlog of physical and financial maintenance requirements and overdependence on the fuel levy which contributes on average 93 per cent of the total road fund revenues is a major hindrance,” he stated. Mr Kichere further said overdependence on fuel levy needs attention, due to the fact that the world is moving towards use of electric and gas to run vehicles and machinery. He was of the view that RBF’s overdependence on one source of fund resulted in the failure to attain its targets for improving the funding adequacy for road maintenance as set in its Strategic Plan of 2016/17-2020/21. The strategic plan also required the RFB to increase revenue collection and to reduce the cost of maintenance.