STANDING tall at the heart of the city, the Arusha Declaration monument has become Arusha’s landmark. People from all walks of life throng the 45-year-old monument for reflections, whiling the time away while for some; the spot has become an important site for photo ops. However, unknown to many, the monument was unveiled by the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party to commemorate 10 years of the Arusha Declaration. Championed by the nation’s Founding Father,Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the Declaration sought to, among other things; safeguard the inherent dignity of the individual in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is what MwalimuNyerere held closer to his heart, as Tanzanians commemorate his 100th birthday anniversary today. “Certainly, Mwalimu did his best as far as the declaration is concerned,” says MrPaul Kimiti, a veteran politician. The former minister is of the opinion that through the ArushaDeclaration, Mwalimu did not want to see disparity in income levels and standards of lives among Tanzanians. He wanted all Tanzanians to enjoy modest lives and that no one should look down on the other as far as the issue of income or quality of life was concerned. According to the veteran politician, MwalimuNyerere always insisted on seeing all Tanzanians being equal and that every individual had a right to dignity and respect. “We should be proud of how we are thanks to Mwalimu because the wealth gap between the rich and the poor isn’t that wide compared to other countries,” he observes. Though he believes that the spirit of the declaration lives on 55 years later, MrKimiti was however quick to point out some of the issues that he think could dent the visions of the declaration. According to the 82 year old, corruption, injustice and disunity could compromise the whole essence of the Arusha declaration if they went unaddressed. Echoing similar sentiments, former ArushaRegional Commissioner (RC), MrDaniel Ole Njoolay, says the Declaration still remains relevant in the contemporary Tanzania. The former Tanzania High Commissioner to Nigeria is convinced that the gist of the Declaration has stood the taste of time, despite the change of regimes. “The tenet of the declaration is all about humanity, equality and justice which Tanzanians have enjoyed and co-existed with for so many years,” he offers. Mr Ole Njoolay says it is worthy seeing some current crop of leaders in Tanzania living up to the true spirit of the Arusha declaration. He says that all regimes have played an instrumental role in ridding away poverty, ignorance and disease, which is one of the aims and objectives of the declaration. “Also to note is minimal difference in our incomes,” adds the former Media executive.