WORKS and Transport Minister Prof Makame Mbarawa has commended the Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) for issuing accurate weather forecast reports and updates, thus making  members of the public to have more confidence in the authority. Prof Mbarawa said the weather forecast information have been helpful in enabling people make timely planning of economic activities. Moreover, he called upon the authority to ensure they collect levies and revenues in sectors that use their services commercially as stated by the law so that they earn revenues for improving their performance and service delivery. Prof Mbarawa gave the statement yesterday when opening the TMA worker's council meeting, saying the ministry was ready to support them in addressing challenges especially when it comes to revenue collection from the meteorological services they offer. "You must meet with the stakeholders and discuss the best way for paying service fee since it is a legal requirement which they are bound to adhere to it. The minister also wanted TMA, in the next fiscal year budget, to state out the sources of revenue which will facilitate the authority to implement its duties smoothly and deliver quality services. "You must engage stakeholders who use your services commercially, like those operating in the construction, water and tourism sectors" he insisted. For her part, Chairperson of the TMA’s Workers Council, who doubles as the authority’s Director General, Dr Agnes Kijazi, said they will discuss over the 2022/23 budget, including reviewing and evaluating the performance of the ending financial year for increased productivity, taking into account the climate change effects. She expressed commitment to continue offering services with international standards when it comes to meteorological services as they have put in place state of the art equipment to increase accuracy in weather forecast. Dr Kijazi said they were proceeding well with the process to purchase four radars to be fixed in Mbeya, Kigoma, Dodoma and Kilimanjaro regions. The envisaged radars will be installed between July 2022 and June 2023.