IN efforts to ensure that prices of fertilisers in the country go down, the government has met the top leaders of the Minjingu Mines and Fertilisers Limited to fine-tune measures which will facilitate the fertiliser company to increase annual production from the current 30,000 to 100,000 tonnes. Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Anthony Mavunde, said this in the august House yesterday when responding to Mbeya Rural MP, Oran Njeza, who expressed his dismay over the worrying fertiliser prices which were increasing at an alarming rate. “What is the government’s strategy in reducing the prices of fertiliser which have continuously been increasing in the world market, as the products continue torturing farmers,’’ he queried. In his response, Agriculture Deputy Minister told the National Assembly that during the 2021/22 season, the prices of fertilisers continued shooting up due to the impacts of Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, which have so far contributed to low production as well as an increase in raw materials for fertiliser factories. “Because of that situation, the government has started taking immediate, short and long-term measures to avert the hiking of fertiliser prices,’’ said Mr Mavunde adding that the immediate measures include controlling unofficial prices that are orchestrated by unscrupulous businesspeople as well as announcing indicative prices. Furthermore, the deputy minister said the government continues attracting more investors to put up fertiliser factories in the country in order to reduce the prices of the products. He said it was crucial for the government to collaborate with the private sector to add more efforts to reduce the price of fertiliser in the country. He gave an example of the recent investment by a Burundi based company Itracom Fertilisers Limited which is now putting up a mega factory in the country’s capital—Dodoma, which upon completion will have the capacity to produce 600,000 tonnes of fertiliser per year. In January this year, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa visited the construction site where he backed up the plan by President Samia Suluhu Hassan to allow a Burundi-based investor Intracom to build a fertiliser factory in Dodoma, demanding that the plan was appropriate for the development of the country’s agriculture sector. He said the government will oversee the entire construction project to ensure it meets the targets required and subsequently address the shortage of fertiliser among rural farmers. The Prime Minister expressed optimism that upon the completion of the project Tanzania could end import dependence on fertilisers. 