Tanzania is expecting to secure 460bn/- from the World Bank (WB) via International Finance Corporation (IFC) to give loans to private sector companies to undertake development projects in the country. The IFC is an institution under World Bank that deals with investment, advisory, and asset management services, focusing on fostering private-sector development in less developed countries. The good news from the Bank came after the talks between Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning Mr Emmanuel Tatuba and IFC's Regional Vice-President for Africa Sérgio Pimenta in Washington DC. Mr Tutuba said the investments to be made by the World Bank in private sector through the IFC will enable the country’s private sector to up production as well as to fast track the construction of different social-economic infrastructures in Tanzania. “The government has already submitted to the IFC proposals for various development projects such as the construction of the four-lane highway from Dar es Salaam- to Dodoma,  construction of hotel and modern shops at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) as well as ICT infrastructures that the government want to be implemented under the Public Private Partnership (PPP),” Mr Tutuba said. Similarly, the Permanent Secretary added that the IFC was ready to encourage the investors from different corners of the world to invest in Tanzania’s energy sector particularly in generating power from solar, wind, geothermal energy and natural gas at Somanga Fungu power generation project which is expected to generate 320 megawatts through the joint venture between the government and private sector. “These achievements are upon the meeting between President Samia Suluhu Hassan and Makhtar Diop, the IFC's Managing Director, during his official visit to Tanzania on February this year whereby President Samia asked for the support for private sector to boost the Tanzania economy,” he said. He noted that the WB funding will support the implementation of the Third National Five-Year Development Plan, worth 114.8tri/-, whose 40 per cent of its implementation (about 40.6tri/-), has to be undertaken by the private sector. The remaining 60 per cent (74.2tri/-) has to be carried out by the government. On the other hand, the IFC has supported the launching of the first ever gender bond, worth 74.3bn/-, by the NMB Bank. The bond was listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange on Thursday, this week. For his part, IFC's Regional Vice-President for Africa Sérgio Pimenta has insisted that the gender bond will be provided for the first time in Tanzania and it will be the first country to benefit from such arrangement in the African continent. Mr Pimenta has commended Tanzania government for making social and economic reforms as well as strengthening the private sector. He pledged to continue supporting President Samia’s efforts in developing and strengthening the country’s economy particularly investment in agricultural sector.