ALL eyes will be at Azam Complex where Azam host Young Africans in a ground breaking NBC Premier League match tonight. The two teams meet in the 19th round of the season upbeat to grab maximum points to keep climbing up the league a ladder as the race towards the league’s diadem escalates. Azam believe that they have gathered enough tools to upset the current league toppers who until now are yet to suffer a defeat and they could stretch their unbeaten status to 19 matches if they escape the venue unhurt. Until now, the duo are separated by 20 points as Azam have  reaped 28 points from 18-game outings while Yanga have bagged 48 points from the same number of outings, hence winning the game is very important to either side. Speaking at a pre-match meeting on Tuesday, Azam's Assistant Captain Bruce Kangwa said they have had enough preparations for today's match such that he believes they will stamp success to get the maximum points. "We are aware that the game is going to be difficult since we are facing a big club, but we have prepared well to emerge winners of which I believe we will manage," he said. He added that football is a pressure game that is why they have done their homework well to make sure that at the sound of the final whistle good results should go their way. On his part, Yanga's Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze said despite winning the first round encounter against Azam, a long time has passed and that both sides have embraced many transformations. "We understand that the game will be very competitive since each team has had intensive training, but we have taken into consideration many things in order to emerge victors. "First of all, we will have to make sure that we showcase good performance and that performance will give us good results in the end," said Kaze who is searching to clinch his first Premier League silverware for the club. Again, he noted that statistically, Azam is a well balanced team meaning that they do not depend on one person to score goals, a thing he said, gives them an upper hand to win most of their encounters. Furthermore, Kaze disclosed that in most cases, players who return from national team duties fail to concentrate in the next league game because they get exposed to another playing style and it takes some time for them to go along with their colleagues at the club level. "I believe that there is no coach who loves the international FIFA break not because it is bad but rather players are exposed to different environment not that they were experiencing at the club and when they come back, they take long time to adapt to the system again," he said. However, Yanga already ruled out Feisal Salum and Khalid Aucho from today's game due to injuries and could perhaps they will return for their Azam Sports Federation Cup against Geita Gold at Benjamin Mkapa venue in the city.