YOUNG Africans defender Djuma Shaaban is in doubt to face their traditional rivals Simba at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium tomorrow. The in form Congolese right back sustained  injury during their NBC Premier League match against Namungo at the same venue last weekend. The Nasredine squad will have to depend on Tanzanian international Kibwana Shomari or Paul Godfrey in case the former Vita Club defender doesn’t recover in time before the Dar es Salaam derby. Shaaban played a vital role in his team’s 2-1 victory over Namungo and against other teams, and he has a contribution  to  his team’s unbeaten league run. Yanga have long stayed at the helm of NBC Premier table with 54 points, while their closest challengers and traditional rivals Simba are second-placed with 41 points though they have one game in hand. On contrary to a situation at Yanga camp,   things are okay at Simba after receiving a motivational news about the return to action of their skipper John Bocco. Bocco, the Taifa Stars striker didn’t appear in Simba’s shirt for one month and missed his team’s quarter final games against South Africa’s Orlando Pirates. Bocco, the last season’s league top scorer has never scored a single goal this season while his team heads to play the league’s 20th round this weekend. Both Simba and Young Africans have scaled up drills ahead of their Saturday’s derby at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. As well the ‘Dar es Salaam Derby’ fever continues to mount countrywide. Practically, the Msimbazi Street Reds are the ones who are approaching the game with an urge to win as they need it to restore the championship pride as they want to defend the title for the fifth time in a row. Their determination to win the game is expected to double after crushing out of the CAF Confederation Cup following their 4-3 penalties loss to Orlando Pirates. Simba, whose going has been occasionally checked, are obliged to win the derby at any cost bearing in mind they go into the encounter with a 13-point gap inferior to their opponents. As such; gathering maximum points after the match is the only remedy to enable Simba rekindle their hopes of retaining the league diadem for the fifth time. Also, Simba's previous league match against Polisi Tanzania was a nightmare as they squandered two points in their barren draw with them. The Saturday match now turns out to be the best moment for them to bridge the gap with their traditional rivals. For Yanga, they already have a positive attitude to face their long term rivals as they lead the table with 54 points in the bag, hence a win will pull them closer to the league’s title they have missed for the past four seasons. The fact that they have not lost a single league match this term gives them confidence to come out clean against the defending champions. However, as it stands, Yanga have two matches to consider tough and that include the Saturday game against Simba and Mbeya City, the teams that forced a draw with them in the league’s first round.