SIMBA’S living legends believe that the club has an upper hand to cruise into the CAF Confederation Cup quarterfinals as they face US Gendarmerie at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. The two sides go head to head in a decisive match which will judge who deserve a place in the competition’s quarters. The teams shared spoils in a 1-1 draw when they met in their first leg in Niamey, Niger, the result enabled Simba to pick a vital point from away, but for now, all eyes see all signs that Simba will emerge victors at the final whistle. One of the team’s legends, George Masatu encouraged all Tanzanians to pray for Simba so that they win and qualify for the quarters stage of the competition, since the team’s victory is every Tanzanian’s pride. “I can say we have 65 per cent chance of reaching into the quarters, but they should not relax just because their first game ended in a draw. “I think players should have a mindset that they lost the previous game against them and at the same time work hard and diligently to ensure that they pick three points which will give them a green light to march forward,” he said. However, Simba have assured their fans of enough security and availability of transport services until midnight ahead of their tomorrow’s decisive CAF Confederation Cup match. For the first time, the Msimbazi Street Reds will host a CAF Interclub game at 22:00 hours which is a new experience to them, but basing on the importance of the match, there is no way out other than accomplishing their mission. Simba, the country’s solo envoys in the competition, just need a win to squeeze into the quarterfinals which is their number one priority and the ball is already within their territory to complete the intended task. “Basing on the intensity of the match, Police have already assured us that they will provide maximum security especially outside the stadium to ensure that people arrive and leave the venue safely. “Security will be beefed up after the match because it is the time when people come out in big number at once and all these will be done to protect people who will descend at the venue for the big match,” said the club’s Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally. He added that there is no way Simba will tolerate their fans to leave the stadium with any sort of upset while urging those with bad intentions on the day to be aware that they will not succeed with their unprofitable deeds. In terms of general preparation of the team ahead of the game, Ally said the drilling is going on well and each player is working hard to earn a playing time on the day