THE public has been urged to ensure that there is friendly environment for people with disabilities to access services easily. The call was made on Tuesday in Mwanza City by various development stakeholders as they joined a group of people with disabilities to discuss the importance of inclusive education and how best to communicate information about people with disabilities in the community. Chairman of Tusaidiane Disability Resources and Charity Organization of Tanzania (TDRCT),MrNyamrangaLwakatare called on the public and the government to facilitate access to educational resources for the group. He said, for instance, the visually impaired people needed braille to read, but still there was a shortage of such materials for teachers to teach people with disabilities. MrLwakatare said inclusive education is important as it helps to make children with disabilities see themselves as part of Tanzanians and have same rights as other children. Radio Free Africa (RFA) Presenter,MsSharifa Suleiman said journalists who reach out to the community to write about people with disabilities must embrace professionalism when covering those stories. MsEveridaFaustine, a teacher at Nyanza B School, which is an inclusive school, said children with disabilities were academically performing well, but she called for more efforts by the government to increase teaching materials for them. Assistant Secretary of the Tanzania Association of the Deaf (CHAVITA) in Mwanza Region,MsJanestaSospeter,said adverts for job opportunities should also be made available to the group. She also called on the government and various institutions to recruit sign language translators to address communication challenges facing deaf people. "We are asking the government and the society to employ translators in public places such as hospitals, courts, police stations and others," said MsSospeter. A local leader forSwila area in Mwanza City,MrMuhangwaYazoya, asked the community not to hide children with disabilities in their houses and instead should send them to school to get education, which is one of their fundamental rights.