I did not know that deciding to go to church would bring other ungodly things, like visiting the pearly gates when I am still alive……okay, the decision to go to church was made by the mother of my clan, so you can remove the frown from your face. For those of you who read my cheap narrations every week, then you will remember I told you that when it comes to religion, my wife can beat the chameleon hands down in changing colours. This year alone the mother of my clan has hopped from three different churches in a span of three months, and as I am writing this, she is a devout member of a sect calling itself CHAWA, which is short for Church of the Awakened Winners Assembly. It is unfortunate that every sect that my wife goes to comes with their own weird character, like the last one where members of her church came at my place and started barking like rabid dogs, claiming that they are casting away the ‘spirit of the dog’ which they detected at my home. Of course I kicked them out the same way I kick out most of her church members who try to convert my house into a mini church, where after every service they feast on the contents of my fridge, and one very fake pastor who prophesied that the holy spirit has directed him to confiscate my whiskey bottles so that he can go and pray for them. Anyway, this time around my wife decided that it was a good idea to convince her entire clan which consists of yours truly and my three children, and that includes Boyi, my domestic thug, to join her church. It was the early hours of Sunday morning, where I was sleeping off the effects of serious drinking the previous night, when the mother of my clan shook me so violently for a moment I thought that I was in a plane which had just crashed. I shot out of bed like a veteran thief before my eyes could focus on mama Boyi, who was standing there like a female wrestler who had just won the championship, glaring at me as if she had caught me in a compromising situation with a bar maid at Zakayo’s Pub. “Baba Boyi, you know these are the end times, and you are sleeping as if you have a contract with God of living forever. This time whether you like it or not we are going to church, and that applies to all your children, so wake up and get ready,” she said and stormed out of the room. I beseeched my ancestors to give me strength and patience so that I can run away from the temptation of strangling my wife, but before the ancestors could respond, the woman barged back into the room and looked at me as if she was about to commit cold blood murder. A wise man knows when to fold his tail and accept defeat, and I knew this was one of those times. So I swallowed my pride and went to the bathroom to take a shower, but not before peering at the bedside clock which announced that it was a few minutes to 6am! I found my son the domestic thug pacing up and down in the sitting room, shaking his imaginary dreadlocks and muttering something to the effect that Jah will one day chant down the Babylon system. When he saw me, he looked at me as if he was seeing me for the first time, and I knew it was the effects of the leaves he fondly calls the ‘holy herb’ which he usually smokes. “Mshua, you are supposed to be the chief of this house, you should not allow any woman to sit on top of your bald head, because Jah will strike the weak substances in the society, so do something man, I and I cannot allow the Babylonians to control Jah people!” He said before giving his imaginary dreadlocks a violent shake. I knew the boy had a point, but then I also knew that he was not aware that his mother was capable of murder, and I was not ready to start educating him on how his mother operated. I was hoping that the collection of metal I call my car would do what it usually does and refuse to start, but the stupid thing came on as if it has a new engine, and we proceeded to church in silence, with one of my daughters at the back seat clucking her tongue throughout the journey. As soon as I had settled down in the backrow of the makeshift church (I and the domestic thug totally refused to occupy the front seats mama Boyi was leading us to), I switched off into deep slumber. I don’t know for how long I slept, but I dreamt that I was in heaven, and God Himself appointed me as the prefect at the pearly gates, directing people to their heavenly mansions. In my dream, I was busy doing my job when the heavenly phone started ringing. Because I was busy, I decided to ignore it as I saw mzee Zakayo, the proprietor of my local drinking joint in Manzese, making his way to the gate. I remembered he refused to allow me to drink on credit claiming that my debt resembled a telephone number, and I was about to tell him to change directions and head towards hell where he belonged, when the heavenly phone started ringing again. I was about to pick it up when I saw mzee Zakayo sprinting inside the pearly gates and disappeared. I made a point of getting in touch with Angel Gabriel and tell him to conduct a manhunt for the old man. The heavenly phone started ringing again, and this time I decided to pick it up because the noise was irritating. I shouted ‘Hello’ through the phone and I could hear the devil panting on the other side. “Baba Boyi, I seriously need your help, I tried calling God but the old chap is not picking the phone. I have three fellows from your country, from Kilimanjaro actually, and they have managed to put out the fire, can you imagine that? And they are the only ones with a matchbox, but they are refusing to give it to me so that I can light the fire, they say I have to buy it with gold” he said, and in the background I could hear him screaming “Massawe, please don’t do that!” I was wondering whether I should send Angel Michael to the devil’s rescue, but suddenly I heard a loud bang, and before I could find out whether the fellows from Kilimanjaro had invaded heaven, I saw the face of mama Boyi hovering above me, and that is how I discovered that she carries the greasy frying pan everywhere she goes!