FOOTBALL pundits have reacted differently to Taifa Star's group F packing ahead of the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers whose finals will be staged in Ivory Coast The country's envoys will go head to head against Algeria, Uganda and Niger in their quest to qualify for the continent’s biggest national level football showdown in Abidjan. Most people have reacted positively saying Taifa Stars can still make it only if they engage in ample preparations and put their focus on the competition by taking one game at a time. In his remarks, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Technical Director Oscar Mirambo said all groups which have been unveiled for AFCON qualifiers are tricky and the best way to excel is to have enough preparations. "In football, what matters most is having ample preparations. Our group is not that difficult and I am sure that we can manage to excel only if we engage in serious drills," he said. Moreover, he pointed out that they will have a meeting with Head Coach Kim Poulsen to see how best they can make a thorough plan for Taifa Stars to follow ahead of the qualifiers. Without doubt, Algeria and Uganda are the favourites in the group by looking at the paper, but it should be known that football has transformed a lot these days such that big names are no longer a threat. As such, it all depends on Poulsen and his subordinates on how they are going to prepare the team for the qualifiers and the most important thing is to take full use of home ground advantage. All the three matches to be hosted at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam should be used to claim maximum three points and never entertain any drop of essential points. This is the time for people to have trust in their team by knowing that anything in football can happen and in AFCON finals, surprise packages are always produced and perhaps it has been written in the sky that this is the moment for Tanzania to shine. Two top teams in each group will automatically qualify for the AFCON finals which will be fought for by a total of 24 teams drawn from across the continent. The first batch of four qualification matches will be played in June while the remaining two clashes will be played in September to complete a package of six games that each team will be tasked to face. In one of his previous interviews, Poulsen reiterated that his side has a big advantage to progress into the AFCON finals and make Tanzanians proud.