HISTORY books looks to be redrafted as heavyweights Young Africans and Simba lock horns for maximum points in ‘Dar es Salaam Derby’ at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium today. It is practically a championship decisive match considering the fact that if hosts Yanga emerge victors, they will lead the table with 16- point superior to Simba, their closest pursuers and traditional rivals. A win, as well, will brighten Yanga’s race towards the throne. On the other hand, a win to Simba will trim the current 13-point gap to 10 points and with one game in hand, it will revive their title hopes. As such; both sides are aware of the importance of the match knowing in advance that picking crucial points will be advantageous to them and here is where the boiling point of the game centres. At a pre-match briefing on Friday, Yanga Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze cautioned his charges to have maximum concentration throughout the match saying derby duels are always unpredictable and past recorded statistics have nothing to do with today’s encounter. “Last season, Yanga was not as good as Simba but they didn’t lose to them. We have discussed with players to put that in mind because there is no favourite to win in derby games. It is an emotional game to players of both sides,” he said. He continued: “We need to approach the match with humble mentality putting aside the fact that we are unbeaten and that we are topping the league table. This is a different encounter which requires maximum concentration. “We are aware that in tomorrow’s (today) game, scoring opportunities will not be plenty compared to other league matches because we are facing a good opponent, hence we need to turn half scoring chances into goals. “We need to play with high level of discipline when we have the ball and when searching it by minimising a number of mistakes which can lead them to punish us,” Kaze said. Commenting on the absence of the suspended Head Coach, Nasreddine Nabi, Kaze said that there is nothing to worry about because they have already arranged on how the team should play hence nothing will be affected by his absence. “In football, 90 minutes of play are for the players and a coach is there to just guide them as such; all preparations are done during the training sessions and the normal period of play are left to players to do their responsibilities,” he said. In retrospect, Simba Pablo Franco expressed his belief that the game will be fair and assured their fans that they will do everything possible to make them happy after the end of the encounter. “It is another big match for us this week, we are going to suffer many times and we are used to it because the past game against Orlando Pirates was tough but I hope that tomorrow (today), the team will change its mentality by playing good football to please our fans. “About players who will miss the game, you need to wait until tomorrow (today) because this is a tough game and we cannot give them such kind of information. Let us hope that the match will be played fairly,” the Spaniard said. Simba go into the action with 41 points from 19 games and they have won 12 games, drew five matches, lost two encounters, scoring 23 goals and conceding 7 goals.