THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joseph Mkirikiti has directed District Commalissioners (DCs) in the region to act tough  against individuals  responsible for environmental and water sources destruction  in the region.  . RC issued such directives while addressing environment stakeholders which evaluated environmental safety and protection of natural resources including restoration of ecosystem. The meeting held yesterday here in municipality also attracted several environmental stakeholders as well as Sumbawanga Water Sanitation Authority (SUWASA) and Rural and Urban Water Sanitation (RUWASA) regional experts. Equally RC warned that there should be no bussinees as usual attitude on environmental protection. "I would like  to direct DCs and environmetal stakeholders to make sure  all those responsible for environment destruction must be taken to task  as per existing laws in effort to address the high rate of deforestation and invasion of water sources in the region," the RC insisted. Equally Mr Mkirikiti urged experts to raise awareness on the citizens to see the importance environmental safety and  protection of forests including water sources by adhering to environmental laws. "The situation is alarming ,I'm calling for attention and joint team work  in efforts to preserve the environmental safety and ecosystem restoration .... latest available statistics show that the region has 190,870 hectors of forests out of them 55,530 ha of forests were destroyed through human activities carried out in 2018/2019 "District administrators must  take bold decisons to protect environment and not allow people to stay and carry out human activities on water sources because it is contrary to the law also implementation directives issued by  Vice President Dr Philip Mpango recently over protection of environment " emphasised the RC. On his part Rukwa Regional Natural Resources Officer, Mr Nicholas Mchome said lack of sustaible and close up supervision over the implementation of environment act no 20 of 2004 and forest act no 14 of 2002 is key source of high  rate of environmental destruction in the region. On the continuous use of charcoal and fire wood for domestic use, Mr Mchome noted that there is a need for environmental stakeholders and experts must ensure natural resources including forests and water sources are safety and sustaunably protected . On his part Rukwa Regional PCCB Commanded, Mr Daniel Ntera called upon government admistrators including local functionaries to adhere to environmenta conservation  act on  issuing of  permits on haevrstung and transportation of forestry products.