THE Chief Government Spokesperson, Gerson Msigwa, Sunday revealed that the government has made significant strides in the cultural, arts and sports area by implementing President Samia Suluhu Hassan's directive that artists should be well paid for their works. Msigwa made these remarks in Kibaha when addressing reporters in the Coastal region on the government's progress in implementing various development projects, including sports and arts sectors. "This week, the government has made a massive step in making reforms in the cultural and arts sectors by starting to implement the directives of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, who demanded artists to be paid royalties for their works. On Friday night, the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports paid royalty to artists for the first time where 1,123 artists were paid a total of 312m/-. These royalties have not been issued since 2019," Msigwa said. The Chief Government Spokesperson added the government, over the weekend, launched music awards for artists. It was in 2015 when the country staged its last Tanzania Music Awards gala. Meanwhile, the National Arts Council (BASATA) has issued three days to music stakeholders to comment on the music categories of the Tanzania Music Awards. The statement was made by the Acting Executive Secretary of the National Arts Council Matiko Mniko during a press conference held at Kivukoni Headquarters in Dar es Salaam. In addition, Mniko mentioned the categories to be competed are 23 with 52 awards. The awards, launched on January 28 this year by the Minister of Culture, Arts and Sports, Mohamed Mchengerwa, in Dar es Salaam, are expected to be conducted on March 26th this year. In addition, the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports has set a goal of organising the big continental level music awards such as Afrimma and MTV Africa. Mchengerwa said Tanzania does not see any reason for failing to organise the competition as the country's current environment of infrastructure and peace are very friendly. The Minister made the statement over the weekend at the launch of the Music Awards and the distribution of royalties to artists held at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Conference Centre (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam. He also urged the ministry officials to create a conducive environments that will enable them to learn the techniques and knowledge of the countries that have hosted the awards. In addition, Mchengerwa spoke about awarding music awards that will culminate on March 26th this year and called on the National Arts Council to ensure fairness to all participants. Mniko said the music awards in Tanzania were presented for the last time in 2015 where since then, there have been no Awards that the government directly manages. Therefore, to ensure that these awards are returned, the government, through BASATA and in collaboration with various stakeholders of the arts sector, has set a plan to present these awards annually and include more categories. Mniko stressed that the government had not forgotten the awarding of prizes in other arts, exhibitions and crafts; the initial stages of preparation for the awards are ongoing. In addition, BASATA, recognising the contribution of its stakeholders in the arts sector in the country, presented the award to the artist and Kisarawe District Commissioner Nickson Simon Maseke (Nick wa Pili) Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL), as well as the Tanzania Music Federation.