HOLDERS Simba have an opportunity to step into the quarterfinals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they face Dar City at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. After battling for 270 minutes without scoring a goal and winning a single NBC Premier League match, this is a great chance for the Msimbazi Street Reds to react and show the world that what happened to the other side of the coin was just a slip. Playing at Benjamin Mkapa venue, Simba are favourites to win and make it to the next stage of the competition and that is exactly what their supporters are longing to see today.  They successfully clinched the ASFC trophy last season in the face of their traditional rivals Young Africans courtesy of a 1-0 victory in a tense finale which guaranteed them to end the season with two titles.  On the day, Ugandan recruited midfielder Taddeo Lwanga netted the solitary goal to help his side emerge winners as such, Simba have a tough task to defend the championship or else they will surrender it if they fail to play their cards well.  However, it should be noted that this competition is played in knockout format meaning that a defeat is enough to end the loser’s journey.  Their Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally already described today's duel as a 'refreshment' to them after experiencing a hard time in the premier league.  "For us, we consider the game versus Dar City as a refreshing platform for our players to relax and after that, we will turn back to premier league duties fully charged to face Tanzania Prisons and Mbeya Kwanza.  "We are going to come back with new energy and plans since by then, our trend of passing through hardship period will be over thereby regaining our usual league status of winning games," he said.  He added that what they have been through in the past ten days or so have helped them a lot to think outside the box on what else to do and that it has been a great lesson to them.  For Dar City, who trade in the First League, conceded that they are minnows in today's match but vowed to fight hard until the final whistle is blown saying in football, anything can happen within a normal period of play.