MINISTER for Land, Housing and Human Settlement Development William Lukuvi has urged citizens to use the newly established customer communication centre to submit their complaints related with land matters. Minister Lukuvi made the call yesterday in Dodoma during the inauguration of the centre whose operations started a month ago. The objective of the ministry is to bring ser- vices closer to the people. He said the ministry has the responsibility to bring ser- vices closer to the people effectively, the determination that forced the ministry to establish the centre. Lukuvi said that by using the current ICT centre, his ministry will provide some services online. He said by establishing the centre people will no longer be required to go to the ministry’s offices to access the services, also serving as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 pandemic. “For example, if there is a citizen who received unsatisfactory service, should let us know what service they received and who treated them badly. We are in Dodoma... but we would like all our customers to be treated fairly in any land office,” he said. ‘There are companies that applied for tasks but they are yet to complete them. You are supposed to report such issues to the centre instead of waiting to present them during the visit of national leaders,” he said. The minister further said that the centre will also receive views and advise on how to improve service provision to wananchi. He noted that in addition to the establishment of the communication centre, the ministry has also established land office in every region on Tanzania Mainland which will provide all services related to land matters including title deeds registration. He called upon the public to use the offices in their respective regions, stressing that if there will be any area which they will not be satisfied with they can seek audience with him. “To access the services a person will be required to make a call and speak directly to the service providers through 0739 646 885 or sent a text message through WhatsApp using the same number”, he said, adding that the centre will be open from 8am to 3pm. Minister Lukuvi noted that other services that will require people to visit land offices in order to access them will continue to be available at all land officers in all district and regional offices. 