TANZANIA bilateral trade with India reached 2.37 billion US dollars (about 6tri/) in the year 2020/2021, the India High Commissioner to Tanzania Binaya Pradhan has said. The High Commissioner commended the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan for strengthening economic cooperation between India and Tanzania. Ambassador Pradhan expressed his appreciation at the occasion to celebrate India-Tanzania 60 years of Diplomatic partnership. He said that India is the biggest destination for Tanzanian exports and second largest bilateral trade partner of Tanzania with bilateral trade reaching 2.37 billion US dollars (about 6tri/) in 2020/2021. Ambassador Pradhan also said the two countries' relationship should be taken as a model of win-win partnership, and that a great future lies ahead. He said there is great scope of Indian investment in several sectors in Tanzania including in ports, infrastructure, oil, gas, health, education and agriculture. India is also among the top five investment sources in Tanzania with Indian investments in Tanzania adding up to 3.65 billion US dollars (over 8tri/-). The ambassador said on January 21st this year, the first consignment of avocados from Tanzania left for India, adding a new chapter in agricultural cooperation. Expounded further, he said India has completed and implemented 500 million US dollars (about 1.1tri/-) development projects in water supply with projects of another 500 million US dollars (about 1.1tri/- in pipeline. Recognizing the potential of Information Communication Technology (ICT) in the development of Tanzania, India has set up two ICT centres at Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology and Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology in Arusha. Also, the annual 500 short-term and 70 long-term scholarships for Tanzanian nationals and students have been helping in capacity building to the Tanzania youth. He said that the Indian diaspora have contributed not only in economic growth but also in nation building and development of social cohesion in the country. “India and Tanzania share a common history of standing against colonial rule and making huge sacrifices to gain independence. India remained a steadfast supporter and vocal advocate of decolonization in Africa and in Tanzania in particular,” said the ambassador in the statement. He further said that the father of the nation and former President of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere had special relations with India. Even today he lives in the hearts and minds of Indian people. He said Nyerere was conferred the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding for 1974 and has the distinction of being the first recipient of the International Gandhi Peace Prize when it was instituted in 1995. 