THE Simiyu Regional Commissioner David Kafulila has instructed district commissioners in the region to ensure all children eligible to be enrolled for school next year, secure admission for studies. He also emphasized on the need for parents with children, who have reached the age of being enrolled for studies, to take their kids to school instead of waiting for the push from the government. Mr Kafulila made the instructions here shortly after receiving 449 classrooms that were built under a National Covid-19 Social Economic Response Plan. “It is a must for all children aged five years and above to be enrolled for studies, this will complement the 100 per cent completion of the constriction of classrooms that will now decongest the classrooms in our region,” he noted. “Parents have to bear in mind that taking their children to school is a must, district commissioners have to ensure effective implementation of this directive,” he noted. Expounding further, Mr Kafulila said the region received a total of 8.9bn/- for the construction of 449 classrooms including 380 for secondary schools and 69 others for satellite schools. “The projects have been completed and right now the region is waiting for schools to open where students will be enjoying the improved learning environment,” added the Regional Commissioner. He also commended the constriction committees at all levels that played a great role in ensuring timely completion of the projects. “We also thank President Samia Suluhu Hassan for providing us with the money for the projects that will decongest classes and enable students to learn in a better environment,” he expounded further. Mr Kafulila also asked residents in the areas that have received the new classroom to ensure all the infrastructures are well protected for the benefit of present and future generations. Speaking on behalf of Simiyu residents, Mr Malimbo Buhakata thanked President Samia for her vision and initiatives on improving the education sector by ensuring availability of all necessary infrastructures.