YOUNG Africans eventually shattered Mkwakwani Stadium hoodoo following their convincing 2-0 victory in Tanga yesterday. It was Yanga’s seventh victory against Coastal Union, the team that last season ended their long unbeaten run with  2-1 victory. Yanga have met Coastal Union at the venue 11 times, claiming seven wins, two draws and two losses. Prior to Sunday's encounter the Tanga-based giants were placed fourth  behind Yanga, Simba and Polisi Tanzania. Goals  from Fiston Mayele and Saido Ntibazonkiza helped to clear one of their most tricky hurdles in their championship campaign. The victory has intensified Yanga’s race towards the Premier League diadem with 29 points as Simba, their closest challengers and traditional rivals have remained second with 24 points. Simba play Mbeya City away at Sokoine Stadium today. Yanga started the match strongly and Congolese striker Fiston Mayele came close to scoring in the 5th minute, but his  header went over the gaping goal. Mayele again wasted a golden chance in the 8th minute after he was set through by midfielder Feisal Salum, but his low shot missed the target. Coastal Union reacted strongly a minute later with Abdul Suleiman shot going just an inch away from the Yanga goal. The Burundian international, Saido Ntibazonkiza also squandered a golden opportunity in the 11th minute of the game after he was set through  by Feisal Salum but his shot went a few inches off the target. Feisal Salum was booked for a poor challenge on a Coastal Union player in the 32nd minute. Yanga had to wait until the  40th minute to register their first goal through Fiston Mayele. It was his sixth  goal of the Premier League campaign. Mayele scored with a free header connecting home a well delivered cross from Djuma Shaabani from the flank. In the second half Coastal Union kept Yanga’s Africans life particularly in attacking areas in a difficult position, forcing the Tunisian tactician, Nasrdinne Nabi to make some changes by bringing in Dickson Ambundo and Farid Mussa in places of Jesus Moloko and Feisal Salum. The changes paid off late in the second half when Yanga netted their second goal through Ntibazonkiza who fired shot in the 89th minute from Farid Mussa’s well-taken cross. For Yanga, the victory over Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium will remain in their history books as they lost there twice in the 2019/20 and 2020/21 seasons. They first lost 2-0 in 2020 before losing 2-1 last season.