MINISTER for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako has instructed the new Council of the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) to oversee and ensure that all key stakeholders contribute their views in the development of new curricula. Prof Ndalichako identified some of the key stakeholders as graduates, students, parents, employers, religious organizations, political parties and civil society organizations. She issued the directives yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the inauguration of the new Council of the Institute. “When conducting a curriculum review, it is important to ensure that we aim to have a curriculum in which graduates acquire skills and knowledge that will enable them to compete effectively in the labour market and self- employ,” said Prof Ndalichako. She said since Tanzania focuses on building an industrial economy, the nation needs to have “When conducting a curriculum review, it is important to ensure that we aim to have a curriculum in which graduates acquire skills and knowledge that will enable them to compete effectively in the labour market and self- employ,” said Prof Ndalichako. competent graduates who can use science and technology in contributing to the country’s economic growth.. “I instruct the Council to oversee and ensure that curriculum review is carried out with the utmost care and professionalism in order to get the document that builds on various current and future skills such as digital skills, soft skills, creative thinking and communication skills. Either, she called on the new Council to ensure that it professionally over- sees the completion of the writing of 69 school textbooks for various subjects since there was a shortage. She said so far TIE has successfully printed and distributed 156 pre-grade textbooks up to Form Six out of 271 required books. “I urge your Council to ensure that these 69 and other unwritten textbooks are completed, printed and distributed to schools as soon as possible at the required quality, ”said Prof Ndalichako told the Council’s Chairperson. She reminded Council members that the government in 2021/22 made significant investments aimed at improving education by allocating 1.427bn/-. In infrastructure improvement, writing, printing and distribution of textbooks from Form One to Form Six, the government provided 15.520bn/ - for the financial year 2020/21 and for the GPE-Covid Recovery Plan the government provided 29.799bn/- for printing and distribution of textbooks for primary school (Pre-school up to standard seven) including textbooks for students with special needs as well as studio equipment for organizing academic programs and electronic content. The minister handed over to Council member tablets with already installed functional tools on research guides, guidance, writing and supplementary and additional assessments. Others were TIE Act chapter 142 review 2002, TIE Council Charter, TIE Audit charter, Education document No. 4 of 2014 and the National Curriculum Framework for Basic and Teacher Education. On her part, the TIE Director, Dr Aneth Kom- ba said 69 textbooks have been completed and were currently in the process of being approved by the Council. “We are grateful to have the new Council and we believe that the books that are in the process of being approved will be approved for printing and distribution as soon as possible,” said Dr Komba. The Chairman of TIE Council, Prof Maulid Mwatawala, moving a vote of thanks promised that his Council will work professionally and implement the instructions given to them to ensure the work is completed on time. “We have heard, we will implement and ensure that the goals of the institution are achieved. We will work professionally, including pushing for the acquisition and distribution of books as well as evaluation of the law that established TIE,” said Prof Mwatawala The Council will serve for four years until December 15, 2025. The Council members are 11 experts from various institutions in the country.