 THE Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) best known as ACT-Wazalendo has announced January 29th 2022 as a date for its intraparty election, to fill current vacant positions. ACT-Wazalendo national chairmanship is among the vacant positions following the death of Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad in February last year. Other positions to be filled through election are the posts of vice-chairperson and one member of the national executive council (Mainland). According to the party’s acting chairperson, Ms Fatma Abdulhabib Fereji, both posts of national chairperson and vice-chairperson are required to be filled by Zanzibaris, while the national executive council membership is for a candidate from mainland Tanzania. “Issuing of the nomination forms for interested applicants starts on Tuesday (tomorrow) to January 17th 2022, which will be followed by the screening process two days later, before nomination and public debate involving candidates on January 28th 2022. “The election will be held on January 29th, this year,” Ms Fereji said at a press conference held at the party’s main office at Vunga, Stone Town. She encouraged ACT-Wazalendo eligible members to step up and vie for the positions. She said that the fee for the chairperson and vice-chairperson nomination forms is pegged at 200,000/- each, while membership of the national executive council is available at 50,000/-. Flanked by other senior officers of the party, Ms Fereji informed journalists that they are now soliciting 240m/- required to cover the costs for the general meeting to elect the top leaders. ACT-Wazalendo leaders and ruling party’s CCM’s Dr Hussein Mwinyi formed the Government of National Unity (GNU) in December 2020, as a workable method to bring to an end political hatred, which emerged after disputes over the last general election. Meanwhile, despite admirable achievement in strengthening the Union between Zanzibar and Tanzania mainland, there are still some unsolved challenges that both governments are determined to clear. At the press conference to explain ministerial achievement in 58 years after revolution, the State Minister- Second VicePresident (Policy, Coordination, and House of Representatives) Dr Khalid Salum Mohamed said that 27 Union vexes were listed since 2006 when dialogues were established. “It is fortunate that we have been going on well and already 19 out of 27 challenges have been solved and we are working on the remaining challenges,” Dr Mohamed said as he urged people to trust the governments in seeking for solutions. He mentioned the unsolved challenges as the sharing of benefits accumulated from the shares (including Zanzibar) in the former East African currency board and the Bank of Tanzania (BoT); and complaints from members of the business community on double ‘taxation.’ Other challenges in the Union is on ‘Pay As You Earn (PAYE)’ and withholding tax; registration of vehicles with Zanzibar registration numbers; Joint Financial Commission (JFC); and TANESCO electricity tariffs for Zanzibar; agreement on foreign loan for the Abeid Amani Karume International Airport development’ and the issue of free sale of sugar produced in Zanzibar. He said that as Zanzibaris and Tanzanians prepare to celebrate the 58th anniversary of the revolution, people should maintain peace and stability along with hard work for the development of Zanzibar.