TANZANIA Premier League Board (TPLB) has described the recently held UEFA Assist League Development Programme as timely and fruitful as it heads to improve entire management of the league. This was said by the board's Chairman Steven Mguto at the climax of the six-day training of the programme which attracted football stakeholders under one roof to strategise   how to amicably run the league. "I can say that the project was very essential because we had a chance to learn many new things which previously, we hardly knew about. Let me thank our partners from UEFA for organising this great training session," he said. He added that for the next six months, UEFA instructors will be monitoring how TPLB and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) implement the discussed issues. Mguto continued: "The training touched many sensitive areas such as management, finance, league management as well as on how club leaders could run their clubs." Furthermore, the chairman clarified that they were lectured on how they can generate income through the league and the best way to structure it. Also, the seminar was used to urge clubs to continue searching for their own sponsors as one way to flex their financial muscles and be able to run their day to day activities smoothly. That was the call from the TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Almasi Kasongo during the climax of the UEFA Assist workshop attended by leaders of clubs which include chairpersons  presidents, secretaries or CEOs, technical directors, marketing officers as well as officials from Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and TPLB. "We emphasised on clubs to always be active and search as many sponsors as they can in order to help them in running various affairs within the club other than depending on the few available league sponsors," Kasongo said.  In the same token, TFF Technical Director Oscar Mirambo also cemented on the importance of the clubs to look for own sponsors saying that is what the modern football marketing strategy preaches about. "Naturally, TFF and TPLB are the ones who seek sponsors to finance the premier league but to be honest, what they provide is not that big to support in managing daily activities of the clubs since running them is very expensive," Mirambo noted.