PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday directed construction projects' supervisors to work hard for timely job completion. The premier denounced the slow execution of public projects at the expense of the public that is suffering and they are meant to serve. “Let me ask leaders and executives supervising this project to work hard and speedily complete the work and give benefits to the people," Premier Majaliwa said shortly after laying the foundation stone for the construction of Kendwa Health Centre in Pemba South region's Kiwani constituency. Equally, he directed the Kendwa Shehia leaders to work closely with the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, Elders, Gender and Children, to ensure that the building and all fitted infrastructure are properly maintained for the current and future uses. Premier Majaliwa was addressing a well attended public rally after laying the foundation stone as part of celebrations for the 58th anniversary of the January 12, 1964 Zanzibar revolutions. Elaborating, he reminded the medics, who will have the opportunity to live in the constructed houses to preserve them, plant trees and conserve the environment. Mr Majaliwa said the Zanzibar government is determined to construct many health centres to enable the islanders to access health services at their proximity. Earlier, the premier inspected the three buildings of the centre, expressing satisfaction over the quality of the structures. “I have inspected all the buildings; I congratulate the supervision committee for the good job,” he said, di- recting other construction committees in the country to emulate the Kendwa team, adding: “Small expenditure of money but the outcome is fantastic.” Briefing the premier, Zanzibar Building Agency's (ZBA) Chief Buildings Supervisor Engineer Said Malik Said noted that the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) financed project started on August 28, 2021 and is scheduled for completion next month. The project budget is 388m/- but it has so far consumed 270m/-, Engineer said told the audience. Upon completion, he explained, the health centre will have buildings for the out-patient department, laboratory, doctor rooms, toilets, patient initial examination, syringe room, dental department, maternity ward and two-in one doctor house. TASAF Executive Director Ladislaus Mwamanga said similar health centres will be constructed in other Shehias, saying according to the beneficiary verification conducted between July 2020 and January 2021, a total of 1,992 households appreciat- ed the support and willingly opted out of the programme. “Through the verification, 211,800 households admitted to have graduated from abject poverty, expressing their willingness to quit the programme within six months,” Mr Mwamanga said, adding that through improved nutrition, health and education, school enrolment has improved as well. 