THE government has disbursed over 38.69bn/- to Rukwa region for the implementation of several projects, it was disclosed here yesterday. Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Joseph Mkirikiti made the disclosure yesterday when wishing regional residents a joyous and prosperous New Year (2022). He further highlighted that the region has received over 8.9bn/- from the Covid -19 relief package of which 6.5bn/- has been channeled to the construction of 259 classrooms for secondary schools and 73 for satellite secondary schools. Mkirikiti hailed the government for allocating 5.1bn/- for the construction of 259 classrooms for secondary schools and 1.4bn/- for construction of 73 classrooms for satellite primary schools. “A total of 332 classrooms have been constructed. At least 73 classrooms for satellite primary schools and 259 classrooms in secondary schools are under final touches of construction works, which has reached 98 per cent. Each classroom has been constructed at a cost of 29m/-. “This noble gesture will definitely ensure no any child is left on out during 2022 academic year,” stressed the RC. The RC tasked District Executive Directors (DEDs) and Sumbawanga Municipal Director to make close follow-up to ensure the value for money spent on the projects is reflected. “Sincerely, on behalf of Rukwa citizens, I thank President Samia Suluhu Hassan for her noble gesture as the region has received over 2.4bn/- for the construction of health emergency facilities, workers houses and procurement of medical devices that will see the improvement of key sectors across the country including health,” noted the RC.. Giving a breakdown, the RC noted that the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) Sumbawanga zone office has received 16bn/- for purchasing of maize from farmers in the region. “Additionally, Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (Tarura) in the region has received 12bn/- for rehabilitation of road projects,” noted the RC. He further noted that the region has also received 750m/-, saying the fund is part of mobile phone transaction levies collected by the government. “The fund will be spent on the first phase of construction of three health facilities at Mwazye Division in Kalambo District, Kate in Nkasi and Kipeta Division along the Lake Rukwa Rift Valley Basin in Sumbawanga District. Each construction project has been allocated with 250m/- in first phase in a bid to upgrade the health services delivery in the precincts,” noted the RC Similarly, Mkirikiti said the region administration had placed much focus on speedy execution of education facility projects. “This year, we must start implementing health projects as well,” added the RC. Meanwhile, RC Mkirikiti has emphasized on the need for the general public to continue taking Covid -19 precautionary measures, insisting that precaution is the best option. Additionally, he reminded citizens to be watchful against other ailments like Tuberculosis (TB), Malaria and, HIV/AIDs, which are still claiming lives of the people “The vaccines are now available at almost every corner of the Rukwa Region, I’m, therefore, appealing to citizens to go and get jabbed. I equally, appeal to health experts and youths to continue raising awareness on the preventive measures,” explained the RC.