PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has extended her best wishes to China for hosting the 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic games. President Samia said the United republic of Tanzania is fully behind China’s hosting winter Olympic games and will maintain the long lived cooperation that the two countries are enjoying since it was established by its founders; Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Chairman Mao Tse Tung. “I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the people of Tanzania, to laud China for hosting 2022  Winter Olympic and Paralympic games. We will maintain the long standing relationship that our founders Mwalimu Nyerere and Chairman Mao established for the benefit of the two countries,” President Samia said. Recently Tanzania Olympic Committee(TOC) President Gulam Rashid expressed his delight of bilateral cooperation with people of China particularly in Sports. The TOC President said the two friendly countries have been cooperating for many decades. Adding, he said Tanzanians have benefited immensely from their Chinese friends through sports expertise and facilities. “We have been supported by China in constructing various sports facilities that enabled our athletes to develop their careers here in Tanzania Mainland and the Isles,”said the TOC President. He cited Zanzibar’s Amaan stadium as one of sports facilities built by Chinese experts. “This stadium was built by the Chinese in the 1970s and can accommodate 15,000 spectators, he unveiled. Explaining further, Rashid mentioned Mao Tse Tung stadium in Zanzibar as another sports facility built by Chinese experts. “We appreciate the assistance given by Chinese firms in sports development. We have good cooperation with the people of China and their government not only in sports but also in education, health and economy,” he was quoted as saying in the Chinese news agency, Xinhua. Rashid said most African countries enjoy good cooperation with China in sports, education, health and economy as well. He also wished China a successful Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games that kick off next month. “We are looking forward to a successful Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic  like the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympic Games,”said Rashid. Rashid told Xinhua on Monday in his office in Zanzibar that Tanzania fully supported China in hosting the Winter Olympic Games. However, the East African nation will not participate because it does not have winter games. “Since the Beijing Summer Olympic 2008 in which Tanzania participated was successful, we are 100 per cent confident that the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics will also be successful, “he said. “Olympics Games enable athletes to meet so many people from different cultures worldwide. As a result, almost all countries in the World take part in the games,” said Rashid.