SCIENTISTS say the body of a mammal is made up of about 100 trillion cells, bone cells, blood cells, brain cells, and so on. There are more than 200 different types of cells in the mammalian body. Meanwhile, some scientific researches indicate that the first animal to evolve with what may be called an ancient eye appeared about 600 million years ago, but through genetic features researchers have discovered that the real eye among vertebrates evolved about 540 million years ago. Through the use of fossils records scientists estimate the first animal carrying an eye evolved more than 540 million years ago when the world was dominated by creatures with exoskeletons, different researches indicate that the first eyed animals had light sensitive mechanism which depended on photoreceptors cell which originated from their ancestors which had very weak brain that was being controlled by other parts of their bodies, fossils records indicate that evolution of an eye took good stage about 525 million years ago when the first ancestors of vertebrate animals evolved into the earth. Despite differences in form and function, mammalian body cells make up a complex network that is wonderfully interconnected. The internet, along with millions of computers and cables that can consume data faster, is much inferior to that network. No human invention can compare with the sophisticated dexterity found in even the smallest particles. Where did the cells that make up the mammals body come from? All living cells belong to two groups but human, animal, and plant cells have a nucleus but bacteria do not have a cell. Since stem cells are not complex many people believe that animal and plant cells came from bacterial cells. On the other side, history shows in the ancient world there were mysterious creatures who had a well-defined head and tail that enabled the balance of their bodies as they moved from one point to another on the world which was going through different geological and weather changes, these earlier vertebrate animals had no jaws to survive, they were forced to dwell very close to the sea where it was possible to capture prey with soft bodies. During that time, one ancient predators evolved with powerful vision which helped them to chase and capture their prey in a difficult about 485.4 million years ago when the planet was still recovering from an earlier weather which was dominated by falling of snow from the sky. On their side scientists say for millions of years, some “simple” cells without cells have swallowed up other cells but have not digested them. Instead, according to the theory, a supernatural “natural” phenomenon made important changes in the functioning of the swallowed cells and also continued to store those cells in the “swallowed” (swallowed) particles as they separated. In order to dive in and explore the mysteries, you will need to shrink and be smaller than the point at the end of this sentence. The particle is protected by a flexible membrane that acts as a brick wall around the factory. The membrane is so thin that 10,000 layers of the coil are about the size of a single sheet of paper. However, the particle membrane is much more complex than a brick wall. How? Like a protective wall around a factory, a cell membrane protects the contents from potential hazards. However, the membrane is not hard; allows the particles to “breathe” thus enabling small molecules, such as oxygen, to enter or leave. But this membrane prevents the more complex molecules that can cause harm from entering without the particles allowing it. The membrane also prevents the beneficial molecules from escaping the particles. How does the membrane do that? With structure that can be divided into three main layers, scientists say mammalian eye can also be further divided into two main segments the anterior segment and the posterior segment but from those days to modern time, mammals normally have a pair of eyes although mammalian vision is not as excellent as bird vision, the structure of the mammalian eye owes itself completely to the task of focusing light onto the retina, this light causes chemical changes in the photosensitive cells of the retina, the products of which trigger nerve impulses which travel to the brain of a mammal such as an elephant. Going back to the question, think again of a factory operating, it may have guards who inspect products entering and leaving the factory through door-to-door doors. Similarly, the cell membrane contains specialized protein proteins that act as door and guard. Some of these proteins have a hole in the center that allows only certain types of molecules to get in and out of the cell. Some proteins are exposed on one side of the cell membrane and the other side bound. They have anchors with shapes that fit certain specific resistance. As the resistance builds up, the other side of the protein loosens and releases the fluid through the network. All of these things happen in the outer part of even the simplest particles. On the other hand, suppose the “guards” have allowed you to enter and are now inside the cell where it is full of fluids that are rich in nutrients, salts, and other substances. Particles use these basic ingredients to make the products they need. However, these things do not happen automatically. Like a well-run factory, particles are involved in the production of thousands of chemical reactions that take place precisely and in a timely manner. Particles spend a lot of time making protein. How does it do that? First, you will see the particle making about 20 basic chemicals, these are transported to a special section, which can be compared to autonomous machines that synthesize amino acids in a specific order to form specific proteins. Just as all factory operations can be controlled by a computer program, much of the work of a particle is controlled by a “computer program” or DNA molecule that receives from a DNA a complete instructions telling you what protein to make and how to make it. Among animals of the savannah, elephants have limited mobility of the eyes but different researches indicated that they can see well in dim light but not in bright light, scientists say the weakness happens because their eye contains very few photoreceptors and they cannot see very well further than 10 meters but some time they are able to see even from 20 meters when they venture into shade of tropical savannah. Different researches have indicated that the visual ability of elephants is limited because of the location of their eyes, ear and trunk which limits the limited mobility of the eye, this problem made ancestors of modern elephants to leave aquatic environment and migrate into savannah tropical forest from about 3.5 million years ago, today the African bush elephant is found in dry savannah area such as Mkomazi, Tarangire and Ruaha while its relative the African forest elephant prefer forest vegetations of equatorial area. Lions are the kings of savannah, Lions have more rod cells than cone cells in the retina of the eye, these are photoreceptor or light sensitive cells, and they function to convert visible electromagnetic radiations or light into signals which stimulate biological process. Lion’s eyes are equipped with two photoreceptor cells which are rods and cones, each of these cells contributing information used by the visual system to form a representation of the visual activities. Cones cells are wider which work as color detector while rods cells are narrow and they are responsible for light as they are distributed differently across the retina. This shows that lions have more light sensitive cells packed tightly in the fovea which is the most sensitive area of the retina, this means their eyes need little amount of light to see something in the darkness than human eyes. Meanwhile what happens when protein is produced is amazing! Each folds down to form a unique three-dimensional shape. It is the structure that determines the specific function of the protein. Imagine the parts of an engine being pulled together. Each part must be properly designed to work. Similarly, if a protein is not properly formed and folded in a certain shape, it will not be able to function properly and may even damage the cells. How does a protein know its way from where it was made to where it needed to be? Each particle produced by the particle has an “address” to ensure that the protein reaches the desired position. Although thousands of proteins are made and sent every minute, each one reaches its destination. Scientists say different cells perform different and complex function in different body requirement. Different Chameleon species are able to vary their coloration and pattern through combinations of pink, blue, red, orange, green, black, brown, light blue, yellow, turquoise, and purple. Among Chameleons the art of color changing plays a very important function in social signaling and in reactions to temperature and other conditions, as well as in camouflage. The relative importance of these functions varies with the circumstances, as well as the special need of different environment. Scientists say color change signals a chameleon’s physiological condition and intentions to other chameleons. These reptiles use ability to change their color as warning signals to a potential predator as it make them to appear dangerous. Chameleons tend to show darker colors when angered, or attempting to scare or intimidate others, while males show lighter, multicolored patterns when courting females. Scientists say some species adjust their colors for camouflage in accordance with the vision of the specific predator species such as bird or snake by which they are being threatened. The desert dwelling chameleons also uses color changes as an aid to thermoregulation. They change into black in the cooler morning to absorb heat more efficiently, and then they become lighter grey to reflect light during the heat of the day. This enables them to be thermo conforming organism by simply adopting the surrounding temperature as its own body temperature and avoid the need for an internal thermoregulation. This is a special ability among different creatures in the jungle as chameleons are able to show both colors mentioned above at the same time, neatly separated left from right by the spine. These reptiles make colors in two ways, they have cells full of pigment for warm or dark colors while brighter blues and whites come from light bouncing off physical elements Chameleons have specialized cells called chromatophores which contain pigments in their body which are also in three layers below their transparent outer skins. The upper layer contain yellow and red pigments, a second layer blue or white and the deepest layer contain the dark pigment of melanin which also controls how much light is reflected. Chameleons are able to change their color because of the after scanning the environment which is surrounding them. On the other side scientist say complex molecules within simple living organisms cannot reproduce. When they are outside the particle, the molecules divide. Once inside a cell, they cannot reproduce without the help of other complex molecules. DNA is needed to make enzymes, however, enzymes are needed to make DNA. Also, some proteins can only be made by a particle, however, the particle is made of protein. Some bacteria can replicate themselves for up to 20 minutes, then it divides itself and if it were to have infinite ingredients, just one particle would grow even faster. At that rate, it can take up to two days to produce a mass of particles that weigh more than 2,500 times the mass of the earth. Complex particles can also divide quickly. For example, when you were growing up in your mother’s womb, new brain cells were created at an amazing rate of 250,000 cells per minute! Meanwhile, scientists say chameleons have the most distinctive eyes of any reptile, the upper and lower eyelids are joined, with only a pinhole large enough for the pupil to see through. They can rotate and focus separately to observe two different objects simultaneously as their eyes move independently from each other. This is a unique and superior ability which gives them a full 360 degree arc of vision around their bodies. Scientists say chameleons are one first animal to evolve on Earth because fossil reords show their ancestor where dwelling in modern Europe, Asia and Africa more than 61 million years ago. rstanslaus@yahoo.com