MEMBERS of the business community in the country have been urged to support the government’s industrialization agenda by establishing factories to speed up the country's economic growth. The call was made here by Zanzibar’s First Vice-President Othman Masoud Othman at the official opening of the ‘8th Mapinduzi Trade Fair’ being held at the Maisara grounds. The event is part of activities to celebrate the 58th anniversary of the 1964 revolution. “Let us reverse the ‘business as usual’ attitude by opening up industries using the available resources in the country. We have resources from the sea and land to enable the establishment of industries,” said Mr Othman. However, the First Vice-President put emphasis on production of quality products that meet the regional and international standards. He said that value addition in foods and spices products is important to attract buyers in both local and international markets. “I urge the Ministry of Trade and Industries development to have strategies to encourage people to buy locally made products,” said Othman. He also encouraged the regular organisation of business forums that should involve stakeholders, aiming at finding solutions to challenges and subsequently, help propel the country’s economy. He said that business forums and meetings provide opportunities for traders, producers, farmers, and tourism operators to talk about available opportunities that they can undertake, particularly in relation to the blue economy. Mr Othman advised further, “Work hard to promote the Mapinduzi Trade Fair from the national level to regional and international so that it attracts participants and buyers from across the world.” He visited several pavilions of different business and service providers. Zanzibar Trade and Industries Development Minister Omar Said Shaaban said the 8th Mapinduzi Trade Fair is also an opportunity for business people and entrepreneurs to share their experience. “This is another opportunity for people, particularly youths engaged in small businesses and entrepreneurs, to get registered and get IDs that will enable the government to recognise and support them,” Mr Shaaban said. The Urban-West Regional Commissioner (RC) Mr Idrisa Kitwana Mustafa also said that the two-week trade exhibition was among different initiatives taken by the government to support and develop entrepreneurs. According to the Permanent Secretary- Ministry of Trade and Industries Development Dr Islam Seif Salim about 374 local traders and from various countries were participating in the Trade Fair, which started on January 2 and is scheduled to close on 15, 2022. 