Dear nephew Milambo Greetings from Dar es Salaam I hope that the great power of Liwelelo has been watching over you and your entire family, and the whole people of my beloved Ukumbisiganga. I hope too that so far the new year is showing signs of being a good year, and I hope that the ugly head of this new disease will continue avoiding those areas and the whole of this beautiful land of our ancestors. Here in the confused city, we are all okay, and the sun welcomed us with open arms, because the heat in this city can drive you up the wall my dear son. My dear son, we thank Limatunda and all the Nyamwezi ancestors because they were with us throughout AN impala is a medium-sized African antelope. Its height ranges between 75 and 95 cm and weighs between 40 and 60 kg. It is found in Savannahs and thick bush in Tanzania, Kenya, Swaziland, Mozambique, northern Namibia, Botswana, southern Angola, northeastern South Africa, and Uganda. The impala lives in light woodland with little undergrowth and grassland of low to medium height like what you find in Mikumi National park. It has an irregular distribution due to dependence on relatively flats lands with good soil drainage and water. While it stays near water in the dry season, it can go for weeks without drinking if enough green fodder is available. Impala is an adaptable forager and usually switches between grazing and browsing depending on the season. During wet seasons in Mikumi, when grasses are fresh, it grazes but when dry season sets in, it browses foliage, shoots, forbs, and seeds. It may switch between grazing and browsing depend- ing on the habitat. Males that are the ability to dominate their herds are contenders for assuming control of a territory. Male impalas fight during the breeding season. Fe- male impalas and their young can form herds of up to 200 individuals. When food is plentiful, adult males establish territories. Females passing through the territories with best food resources are rounded up by males of that territory as they enter their grounds chasing away bachelor males that follow. A male impala usually called ram, prevents and female from leaving his territory. During the dry season, territories are abandoned as herds must travel farther to find food. Large, mixed tranquil herds of females and males from groups of their own. Young male im- palas which have been made to leave their previous herds from bachelor herds of round 30 individual. Males that are able to dominate their herds are contenders for assuming control of a territory. The breeding season of im- palas, also called the rut, begins towards the end of the wet season in May. This is the time when fights are between male impalas. The territorial male’s challenger will have worked his way up through the hierarchy of the bachelor group until he becomes the dominant male. He then leaves the group and challenges a territorial male through horn duels in which the males approach one another with slow, deliberate steps. At a signal such as swiveling the eyeballs to show the whites or slights nodding the head, they crush forward and clash horns. Attempting to throw one another off balance. our journey back from my beloved Ukumbisiganga, and we thank Limatunda because we arrived safely. The journey was long and arduous, and it was made so for the simple fact that I don’t know what types of demons were lurking on the roads, because we experienced two flat tires before we reached Nzega, which has never happened before. The first puncture happened when we were leaving the dirt road from Urambo town, near the marketplace, when my wife who was driving at that time informed us that the car suddenly felt heavy. Because we had a spare wheel, it took us a few minutes to be back on the road, and this time Yassin for once proved to be helpful, because he changed the wheel in a very professional manner and in record time, which brought some serious quarrel later simply because I asked him, in a very polite manner, whether that was the job he is doing in America. When we got the second flat, I was beginning to dose off, the boy at first refused to cooperate, but because he was the one who was driving at that time, he had no option but to do something about it. Because we did not have any spare wheel after the first puncture, we were forced to take both tires to a nearby village where they were fixed before proceeding with our journey, but your aunt was very uncomfortable from that moment onwards, and he constantly irritated Yassin when she kept reminding him to slow down. But we thank Limatunda and the ancestors because we arrived home safely without any other mishap, although it was very late in the night. We found everything at home in good order, although we discovered later that one of our dogs, Milo had somehow managed to escape, and it took us the whole day the next day to locate him, and I immediately called our vet to come and castrate him, because that is where the problem started......I know you are old enough to understand what I mean. However, one of our neighbors who had also traveled to his home village in Moshi for the festive season was not so lucky, because he found some burglars had broken into his house and made away with several very expensive items, including his 55-inch brand new flat television set. That is why I thanked Limatunda that we had left someone to take care of the house during our absence, because there was a possibility that we would have suffered the same fate. My dear nephew, I really appreciate the time we shared together during the festive season, and I have to admit that we all had fun, apart from my son Yassin, who apart from sulking all the time, was responsible for several ugly incidents. It was unfortunate that we were not able to leave with you when we left, but I am comforted with the fact that you will soon join us in this confusing city so that you can get a few weeks for you and your wife to relax. Before I forget, please when you come next week or the week after bring my radio which I forgot in my bedroom, because I am very attached to that device, and I will be sad if I lose it. I remember uncle Salim’s son, Nassir was eyeing it whenever I had it, and I hope he does not have access to that room, because I know once he gets his hands on it that will be the end of it. I am looking forward to your visit my dear son, and I know I have told you on several occasions that I really enjoy your company, which I lack from my son Yassin, although I really hope that one-day Limatunda will have mercy on me and my wife and change that boy. He told me the other day that he wanted me and his mother to lend him some money so that he can start a small business, but I flatly refused after I learned that the business he had in mind involved transporting illegal goods from one of the unregistered ports in Mbweni area. Of course he tried in vain to convince us that it was a genuine business, but I told him that I have been in the city long enough to know genuine and illegal businesses, and that what he had in mind was without a doubt an illegal business.
However, since we were there, I have become quiet fond of Yassin’s wife, because as I told you the other day, that woman is a very good person, but her only misfortune was falling in love with a loser like Yassin. I thank Liwelelo that your aunt also has become very close to the girl, and as I am writing this, they are together in town, and they left several hours ago, so I am here with Yassin who is busy laughing his head off while watching a cartoon. Anyway my dear son, let me wish you all the best as you prepare to come over, and I will be praying to Limatunda to guide when you are ready. Greet everyone in the village, and tell them that although it has been a few days, I already miss them.