THE National Bank of Commerce (NBC) has lost its bid to challenge the dismissal of a Commercial suit lodged against the Deputy Minister, President’s Office - Public Service Management and Good Governance, Mr Deogratius Ndejembi, over repayment of 89m/- loan facility. Judge Steven Magoiga ruled in favour of the deputy minister after rejecting an application for review in which the Bank, the applicant, had lodged against a decision of the High Court’s Commercial Division. “I find this review highly misconceived and the same must be and hereby rejected,” the judge ruled. During hearing of the application, the counsel for the applicant had submitted that there was a discovery of new and important matters, which could not be produced by the applicant at the time when default judgment was made, mat- ters which could require changes to be effected in the case. She contended that the judgment delivered by the court could not take on board new facts and development in the case and that the date of the judgment was not in a position which could adequately and definitely be communicated to the court. In his deliberations as to the first ground, the judge pointed out that the issue of three accounts produced by the applicant and how this was to be a matter that the court could open up now was not a ground for review. “Review, in my considered opinion, is a restricted remedy that is available to a party who has been aggrieved by the decision without making an appeal in disguise or is not a remedy for the applicant to fill gaps in its lacking or deficiency evidence at the first trial,” he said. The judge said further that review must be restricted to the grounds as stated in the law or other grounds peculiar to circumstances of the case that may arise. He said that if the ground was to be granted it would amount to allowing rehearing and re-determining the suit. “This court is not prepared for that course,” the judge said. There was another ground regarding no possibility when the court had ordered to substitute original documents because they were not located as the system has changed from analog to digital. The judge said, “This too, is not a ground and no efforts were made at least to show due diligence done on their part. The law allows use of photocopies and the applicant has herself to blame with her counsel as that was not stated in the affidavit in proof of the claim. To open it now is to re-hear the matter.” On July 23, 2018, the applicant instituted the Commercial Case against the deputy minister claiming, among others, pay- ment of 89,732,945/- being principal amount and interest arising from Group personal loan, default interest, general damages and costs of the suit. Upon being served with the plaint, the deputy minister filed a written statement of defence disputing the applicant’s claims and consequently prayed that the suit be dismissed with costs. The suit went on well before Judge Lugano Mwandambo, as he then was. It was set for pretrial conference on December 12, 2018, when the deputy minister defaulted appearance and the advocate for the applicant prayed that the defence be struck out from the court record. The court granted the prayer and went on to strike out the written statement of defence of the deputy minister. The suit was reassigned to Judge Magoiga in May, 2019 following the promotion of Justice Mwandambo to the Court of Appeal. When the suit was placed before him on June 11, 2019, the advocate for the applicant prayed to file an affidavit in proof of the claim together with others documents in compliance with the new procedure under rule 22 of the High Court (Commercial Divisions) Procedural Rules, 2012, as amended. The prayer was granted as there was no application to restore the struck out defence. Following the compliance of the court’s directive, on September 13, 2019 the court delivered its judgment by dismissing the suit for, among oth- ers, for failure to prove the claim against the deputy minister. Aggrieved by such a decision, the applicant, instead of appealing, decided to file the application for review in question.