When Mwita Chacha, a Dar es Salaam resident living with disabilities, was operating a private own tricycle taxi in Tanzania's capital city of Dar es Salaam under contract, lie was too hard for him to cater for the needs of his family because the income not sufficient. Before the Ilala Municipal Council started implementing to combat inequalities by empowering women, youth and people with disabilities (PWDs) as per goals set by the  National Vision 2025, Chacha admits that his life has totally changed and now his status is nearly to change from being a tenant to the house owner. "I'm a father of three, married one. Despite my impaired legs, I can manage to feed my family. Before the release of these loans, life was too hard, especially for us [people living with disabilities]. "If the director of the Ilala Municipal Council will need to inspect me, I'm ready for that. I will show him my house in Chanika...it is in the final touches," says Mr Chacha, the father as he thanks the local authority's loans for administering the loans. Jasmin Milanzi, a mother of one, is another motorcycle taxi driver in the city. She was born with impaired legs, but as of now, she is a bread winner for several members of the family and relatives including her mother. To her, since the Ilala Municipal council in Dar es Salaam, started allocating 10 percent of of it budget revenues purposely to increase the confidence, voices and economic empowerment of women, youth and people with disabilities (PWDs), the lives of the mentioned economic disadvantaged group members have been impacted positively. Focussing on people with disabilities, the woman says since the municipality started issuing the special loans for beneficiaries of five groups, the number of beggars in the various streets of Dar es Salaam dropped sharply. "People with disabilities have been uplifted. In the street, you can find an abled person begging, but very few living with disabilities doing so," she said. After issuing loans, the Municipal created special routes for tricycle operators. The local authority reserved the route which starts from Congo Street in Kariakoo to Feri to be used by drivers who are living with disabilities. According to Jasmin, the plan has helped them to return the loans timely because of assurance of passengers. While Mwita and Jasmin are backing the policy, Big Bold Cities report captioned ''Empowerment Loans: How 10% allocated budget helps women, youth and people with disabilities'' indicates that since 2014/15 various group have managed to access the loans geared to uplift the lives of women, youth and PWDs. In the period of 2018/19, a total of 374 groups, including 19 groups of PWDs, received 287.9 million in loans, 2016/17, 218 groups, 2015/16, 186 groups and only eight groups benefited from the programme in the financial year 2014/15. CAG's observations Despite of good intention of eradicating poverty among Tanzanians and more specifically to economically disadvantaged groups comprised of women, youth and PWDs, the non-interest loans are hardly recovered to many councils in the country, including Ilala, according to Controller and Auditor General (CAG)'s General Audit Reports for Financial Year 2019/2020. The report shows that in 2019/2020, Ilala issued loans amounting to approximately 1.4bn/- to various groups but only 257m/- was recovered. The report unveils that a total of 1.11bn/- were not yet to be collected. Way forward In the report, CAG recommends that stakeholders in the local government authorities work together to ensure that the loans are recovered. "Members of Parliaments and councilors should announce this in their respective areas for people to pay back the loans," he noted in the report. Another measure that should be taken, according to CAG's recommendations, is to put names of defaulters on the public notice boards in order not push for repayment of the loans. 