HEATED debate over the medium of instruction to be used in schools took center stage during the 8th Regional and District Education Officers Association (REDEOA) Annual Meeting held here on Friday. The education stakeholders drawn from different parts of the country, had varied opinions on whether English or Swahili to be used as the language of instruction in learning institutions, as the players sought to collect views on the improving the current curriculum. Fielding questions from reporters, Tanzania Institute of Education (TEA) Director General Dr Aneth Komba described the varied opinions as ‘healthier’ to the sector as the quest of improving the current curriculum gathers pace. “There were heated debates on which language to go with, with many pushing for Kiswahili though…by and large this is good for the sector,” explained Dr Komba. The TEA boss further suggested that the all the views floored by the stakeholders will be taken on board for recommendations, hinting that the country will have a new curriculum for class one, come January 2025. Immediately after independence in 1964, Tanzania adopted a distinct language of instruction system in its primary and secondary schools. Swahili was adopted as the language of instruction for primary schools, while English was the language of instruction for secondary schools. REDEOA Chairperson, Germana Mung'aho on her part described the current review of the curriculum as a vital step in the improving the country’s education. “While ours if though to be the best curriculum in the East African region, it is still important to improve it,” she suggested. Currently, Tanzania uses the competency-based education, which is a functional approach  to  education  as it emphasizes life skills and evaluates mastery on skills,  necessary  for and individual to  function  proficiently in a  given society. The neighboring country of Kenya recently proposed for the competency based curriculum (CBC), as the East African nation seeks to replace the 8-4-4 system. Many countries such as Finland, Germany, South Africa, the Netherlands and Norway have developed their own competency framework which acknowledges the needs of the local populace for the training programmes within the context of their competency definitions.