HALLO folks, how are you! I hope that you ‘jumped’ the year without any mishaps, and I hope you are not like Baba Boyi, who has been kicked, abused and suffered all sorts of situations during the just ended year. I am glad to inform you guys that last year, I managed to accumulate new friends, and fortunately, I have also managed to get brand new enemies, yeah, that to me is a very good achievement, and I have good reasons to say that, because I don’t believe that you are crossing this year without at least a single new enemy, no way! As I watched the year coming to a close, I couldn’t help playing back all the events that played a major part in my life until now, but to my family, they believe that in the most part, the year has been dreadful for me. But before I start boring you stiff with all the ups and downs that I have gone through this year, let me first tell you how I celebrated the passing of the year, because I have always believe that every year should end with some sort of a loud bang, if you know what I am saying. after the near-riot which threatened peace in my house because I flatly refused to take my family to Bagamoyo to celebrate the birth of Jesus, this time round I decided to take my whole clan, which include my gentle wife (okay, not so gentle) mama Boyi, my domestic thug, Boyi himself, a. k. a Papa Dog killa, alias Mtoto wa Ngwasuma, and his sister, the Investment, a. k. a Baby Boom, and my youngest daughter, the Natural Disaster, for a special outing. I decided to take them to a place called Msasani Beach Club, which is somewhere in the neighborhood of a place called Kawe, where rumor has it that all sorts of dubious characters have their dwellings, and where you can get anything sold to you in kilograms, even salt. The trouble that day began when I brought my junk, which is a sorry excuse for a car, to a stop right inside the compound of the club, and all the members of my clan trooped out, as I breathed a sigh of relief, because the bloody ‘kimeo’ of a car didn’t misbehave at all during the whole trip. When I was leading them into the main entrance, a rough character stopped us before we could enter, and announced that we were supposed to pay an entrance fee. As if that was not enough, the guy went ahead and announced the fee that we were supposed to pay, and when I told him exactly what I thought of him and his silly idea of ripping me off, he went and called for backup. The guy who came as the support team was in uniform, and I should inform you that apart from the uniform which made him look imposing, the guy was built like a telephone booth, and he looked as ugly as the black boot he was wearing, which, in short, made him scary. “Ati unasema hautalipa kiingilio mzee?” he asked, and believe me, there was nothing friendly with the way he asked. Because I always know my rights, and what they stand for, I knew that I should not be intimidated, so I told him the truth, that they were trying to take advantage of the situation to rob the citizens of mama Samia in broad daylight. For those of you who have had the opportunity to venture towards those sides, then of course you know that the place is the property of the people we call the JWTZ, the people who have a reputation of making grown-up men cry for their mothers, and because these people were hatched from the same place, they all behave in a manner that is quite not right. Thank God there were plenty of people who were waiting to pay and enter the club, and who took it upon themselves to intervene when the uniformed thug tried to make me hop like a frog, right in front of my clan. Okay, so eventually I paid, after Mama Boyi told me to behave like a grown-up, but not before I had threatened to deal with them accordingly when the right time comes. Because, as I have told you earlier, I try to close the year accordingly, I ordered plenty of the brown liquid for myself, and enough sodas to float a small boat for the rest of the clan, and put my feet up, swallowing away. I know there are some of you who are puzzled that I am the same guy who was complaining of being broke to the extent of denying my family a visit to Bagamoyo for Christmas, but where I got the money is a story for another day. By the time the sun went down, my system was already high, and I felt like the great king of Kwa Mtogole, as I showed the young boys and girls how music is really danced, and how you can calculate your steps into a new dance style which I immediately baptized the ‘kichura chura’. When I finally decided to join my family at the beach, I was fit to drown, and I thank God that Mama Boyi happens to be as strong as a young ram, because on more than one occasion she dragged me out of the water before I could swallow several buckets of salty water and end my sorry life. Things didn’t become any brighter after the wife discovered that my domestic thug, Boyi, was behaving in a very suspicious manner, jumping up and down in a Masai warrior style, shaking his imaginary dreadlocks, and chanting Jah songs, as he clutched a bottle of mineral water. When she investigated the contents of the bottle, she discovered that the boy had been sipping some lethal brew all along, which he had replaced with the water. The final straw came when she caught Baby Boom, my innocent daughter, in a very compromising situation with a boy who looked like a professional pickpocket. This time, she was the one who bundled all of us in the car and drove us home, and all hell broke loose when we reached there. But because my son, Boyi, and me were not in a position to defend ourselves, she waited until the next morning, and called a round table meeting, where she was the chairman, the timekeeper the judge and executioner of the meeting. She told us to come up with new year resolutions for the this year, and before we could respond in any way, she laid down her resolutions she had planned for us, and any thought of objecting was discouraged, because in her left hand, she was holding a very greasy frying pan, just in case any of us decided to become wise!