TOUGH times beckon for individuals vandalising public utility infrastructure, after Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Mwinyi Monday ordered thorough investigations and arrest of the crooks, branding them as economic saboteurs. President Mwinyi condemned the recent theft of copper wires, which supply electricity to Bumbwisudi water source, the spring of the precious liquid to the large part of Zanzibar city. “These (thieves) are purely economic saboteurs; how dare you steal a copper wire of hardly 100-metre long and deny an essential water service to thousands of innocent wananchi,” fumed President Mwinyi, instructing the defence and security agencies, especially Zanzibar's special departments, to start providing 24-hour security services to public utility infrastructure. The president ordered that those arrested with the stolen materials—be a thief or just a buyer— should be investigated and charged as the economic saboteurs. Dr Mwinyi said the government might contemplate banning scrap metal business in the country, to salvage public infrastructure, "Sometimes, it's this scrap metal business that fuels these types of vandalism.” Fielding questions from a fully packed press conference room, President Mwinyi conceded some challenges in the government performance, pledging changes soon. “We have both good and poor performers but sincerely, women are doing better than men,” Dr Mwinyi said of his appointees. The isles leader expressed sympathy to Zanzibaris on the skyrocketing prices of foodstuffs, saying the problem is beyond the government control because the price rise emanates from the product sources. “Both, the purchase prices in the producing countries and transport costs have skyrocketed,” he said, pledging to review the government charges on imports, doubting however if the move will have any meaningful impact. On the effectiveness of "Sema na Rais Mwinyi '' initiative, the president said there are still challenges but many issues have been addressed, with 67 per cent of the issues raised having already been solved. Under the initiative, the islanders are provided with an opportunity to talk to their leader on various issues they are encountering. President Mwinyi said he will soon embark on his impromptu tours of public institutions to enforce hard work and smooth delivery of services to wananchi. "We entrusted some people with the task but it seems some have failed,” President Mwinyi noted with concern. He especially directed the protection of road reserves against encroachment, saying people building in the road will have their structures demolished without any compensation. The president implored the islanders to remain patient as the government agencies, especially Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Authority (ZAECA), work on grand corruption charges against public servants. “We don't want to rush to court without sufficient evidence to build strong cases; but many cases on embezzlement of public resources are almost complete, they will soon be filed subject to availability of strong evidences,” President Mwinyi said in response to a question on reluctance to prosecute suspected economic saboteurs.