ON Saturday religious leaders held a special event in Dar es Salaam during which they held special prayers for the nation and for President Samia Suluhu Hassan, including congratulating her for turning 62 years of age. During the event, President Samia made a phone call, expressing gratitude to the country's religious leaders for their prayers and supplications, and urging them to continue working with her in leading the country. Tanzania, the nation whose constitution grants its people the right to freedom of religion, has always been respecting its religious leaders, cognisant of the fact that clerics, apart from playing their spiritual role they also play a pivotal function in the country’s development. For any nation to develop or be able to implement its development programmes, peace, unity, justice and oneness have to prevail, and religious leaders, according to sociologists and political scientists, are key people charged with the responsibility of shaping their believers. Experts in sociology say religious leaders and faith communities are the largest and best-organised civil institutions in the world, claiming the allegiance of billions of believers and bridging the divides of race, class and nationality.  They say the role of religious leaders as agents of peace and security for sustainable development cannot be under emphasized since religion itself is one of the cultural patterns of human society which helps to shape and reshape the society. According to them, religion serves as an agent of social justice and truth, meaning that for the nation to be at peace and security consciousness for a sustainable development, the religious leaders have to tell the believers and leaders the truth. Religion is a potent tool for peace and it should be practiced to overcome differences in order to bring about sustainable development. Religion teaches moral, reshape the society and brings happiness for its followers. In other words, religion helps man to have his ultimate as well as building good citizens who will be useful to themselves adequately by contributing immensely to the peace and security of the nation for sustainable development. We, the Tanzanian people, can confidently and boastfully state that religious leaders have adequately performed their roles, making this country a better place to live. However, the clerics ought to understand that more needs to be done in shaping their believers to become good citizens so that the government can concentrate on development programmes, especially in this era when the world has evolved into a global village. Religious leaders must not stand aloof when issues affecting the stability of the society are at stake. They should continue being the moral watch-dog of the country.