THE 'NMB MastaBata - Kivyako Vyako' campaign, run by NMB Bank, has gained momentum with some of the financial institution’s 100 customers winning 10m/- in the second week draw held recently in Dar es Salaam. Speaking ahead of the draw in the City, NMB Card Unit Manager Sophia Mwamwitwa said NMB MastaBata is a campaign aimed at promoting the use and payments being made by a customer to the bank through MasterCard, Masterpass QR and PoS. “It is where NMB has allocated more than 200m/- for competitors over 10 weeks…here the winners are given cash prizes to give them the freedom to plan their spending as a motivation to promote cashless payments. The campaign was inspired by the needs of a modern world that believes in non-cash use, which faces several challenges, including loss and theft. She further said due to the need, NMB designed the campaign which has been going on for three seasons now and shaped the growth of card use, and the amount of its bank being awarded the Leading Bank Card Promotion Card Use Award in 2021, where they increased its use by 104 per cent. "The campaign was launched in late December last year and will continue for 10 weeks, during which more than 1,000 winners will be awarded cash prizes. We will have 100 weekly winners, 25 monthly winners who will win 100,000/- each, and in the 'Grande Finale' we will give 30 winners of 3m/- each. "The call to our customers is to continue to use their cards to make payments and use MasterCard, Masterpass QR and NMB Payment Centers (PoS) to increase their chances of winning, open an account so that you can not only win these prizes but also enjoy our services, "said Mwamwitwa. NMB MastaBata - Kivyako Vyako is being held under the auspices of the Tanzania Gaming Board (GBT), where the second draw was overseen by Pendo Mfuru, who assured NMB customers that criteria and conditions are being considered in finding the winners of the campaign. "Our main responsibility is to manage these games and I am here for that responsibility and to assure all customers that everything goes according to the rules, regulations and rules of GBT," she said before the start of the second draw.