PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has appealed to the International community to collaborate with the African continent including Tanzania in the recovery of their economies as a result of Covid-19 pandemic effects. Mr Majaliwa made the plea on Monday, while taking part at the World Youth Forum, which is being held in hybrid format in Egypt. The Premier participated in the meeting virtually from his office in Mlimwa, Dodoma on behalf of President Samia Suluhu Hassan. "Since the first wave of the Covid-19, we have witnessed significant economic impact, especially on young people. Young people have been contributing significantly to our country's economy, but the presence of Covid-19 has affected the development of the tourism industry, where many youths are employed,” said Mr Majaliwa. The Premier noted that the pandemic has affected the manufacturing and infrastructure sector, which had employed many youths. He observed that when President Samia got the opportunity to address the United Nations General Assembly held in the United States last year, she elaborated on how the Covid-19 has affected Tanzania, a move which enable the country to secure a concessional loan, which has been spent in the construction of classrooms and health facilities as way to boost the economy. “We have encouraged the African Union (AU) to make this issue as an agenda to deliberate ways which could help the African economy to recover. Tanzania, as an AU member will take part in the debate in search of a way of recovering its economy amidst the Omicron variant,” he said. The PM revealed that Tanzania seeks support in the effort to develop its infrastructure for its citizens, especially the youth, to effectively participate in boosting the economy of individuals and the country as a whole. Among world leaders who are participating in the five-day forum include President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt, Colombia President Ivan Derque Marques, Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema, Malta George Vella the President of Malta and the Minister of State for Youth Affairs in the United Arab Emirates Shamma al Mazrui. The forum is being attended by over 5,000 participants from different countries aimed at discussing the impact Covid-19 on youth and how countries have put strategies in place to address them, especially in economic activities, climate change, social security, human rights and environmental conservations.