THE government is at final stages of developing the first ever National Guideline for Early Education Quality and Outcomes. And in the process, stakeholders in the education sector met in the country’s capital—Dodoma on Tuesday to air their recommendations on the proposed draft which seeks to intensify the provision of high quality education for all in the country. Held at Mtemi Mazengo Model Primary School, the stakeholders’ meeting was attended by lecturers from different public higher learning institutions, representatives of development partners, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Early Education Leaders as well as Quality Assurance officers from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, media representatives, among others. Speaking during the official opening of the stakeholders meeting, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Professor James Mdoe asked participants to come up with the best recommendations from the proposed draft of guidelines, which he insisted was a heart of the country’s early learners. “When you go through the guidelines, you need to remember that you are doing this job for the fate of your country and if the document becomes successful, you will have left the legacy to the next generation,’’ insisted Prof Mdoe. The Deputy Permanent Secretary reaffirmed the government’s commitment in improving the country’s education sector beginning with early learning. He said the new guidelines would help in the implementation of key objectives of early education as well as measuring the outcome by quality assurance officers from the ministry. Prof Mdoe said there were key five objectives of the early education guidelines which include identifying the important needs in the provision of early education, identifying key services that need to be provided to early learning pupils during school hours, putting up requisite qualities for provision of early learning, identifying the responsibilities of different stakeholders as well as making follow-ups and assessment to identify the qualities of education provided. Early Learning Quality and Outcomes Initiative equally aim at improving early childhood education in the country through measurement of children’s development and learning and the quality of learning environments. While approaches to measuring early childhood development and learning have been developed across countries, less attention has been placed on coordinating across instruments to improve the efficiency of measurement, or on using the modules at scale across countries or regions, especially in low- and middle-income countries. Presenting the Guideline for early education before participants yesterday, the National Coordinator of Early Education, Ms Hawa Selemani said the process of developing the proposed draft guideline was led by the government through the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology in collaboration with THE United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) which funded the process. “We now want recommendations and approval from stakeholders in the education sector, because we are now at final stages of seeking accreditation from authorities,’’ said Ms Selemani Earlier, Mtemi Mazengo Primary School Imani Weston told the deputy Permanent Secretary that by having a model primary school, his school had performed well in the standard four and seven results respectively, adding that in Dodoma City, his school was the first public primary school in Standard Seven results. The school is among the five model schools nationwide. Others are in Mtwara, Geita, Kigoma and Mara. 