TANZANIAN ambassadors have been urged to promote Blue Economy policy which focuses on various issues including strengthening the tourism sector and construction of port infrastructure and increasing youth employment. Second Vice President Hemed Suleiman Abdalla made the call during his talks with five envoys who have been appointed recently to represent Tanzania in Europe and Africa. The VP said that the Blue Economy policy is a new perspective of which the eighth phase government has decided to promote for effective utilization of sea resources and tourism sector as well as improving port infrastructure to fast track the Isles economic development. He gave an example of fisheries noting that it has not been utilised effectively taking into account that Zanzibar has two islands surrounded by water. The VP further noted that the government through Zanzibar Fisheries Company (ZAFICO) is well organised to develop deep sea fishing by procuring fishing boats in the area. “Zanzibar government is centered on deep sea fishing by empowering our institutions and private fishermen to carry out fishing activities in the area rich in fish re- sources and other marine creatures. He also reminded the envoys to promote diplomacy policy which focuses on economy and investment. “Basing on our diplomacy policy one of your responsibility is to open doors for investors to explore various investment opportunities available in the country especially industrial projects in blue economy,” he said. Tanzanian Ambassador to Comoro, Pereira Ame Silima said that they are well prepared to implement the directives issued by government leaders, President Samia Suluhu Hassan and President Dr Hussein Mwinyi in order to attain the objectives of diplomacy policy. “We are well prepared to ensure that we implement the objectives of the Blue Economy by promoting investment in various areas including tourism, and construction of ports which will strengthen economy,” he said. Newly assigned Tanzanian envoy to Brazil Professor Adelardus Kilangi said that he will make sure that he convinces investors from Brazil to come and exploit investment opportunities in Tanzania. Other envoys who also met with Second VP are Said Shaibu Hassan, who has been assigned to represent the country in Kuwait, Fredrick Kibuta, who has been as- signed to Russia, Alex Kalua Israel and Said Mshana. 