FOLLOWING a clean  2-0 win against Coastal Union over the weekend, Young Africans have described it as a clear indication of winning the league’s throne this season. The two sides settled their differences at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga over the weekend as the visitors casted out a four year win-less demon at the venue thanks to Fiston Mayele and Saido Ntibazonkiza goals. Last season, Yanga's 22-match unbeaten run ended at the hands of the Tanga-based giants as they lost 2-1 but this time around, they have stretched their status of not losing a premier league game to ten matches. However, at a post- match press briefing, the club's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingiza labelled the victory as a good indicator that the championship is close to them. "First of all, let me express my happiness for the good results we have recorded at this challenging stadium and when you go away to win convincingly at these kind of stadiums, it means we have a good team hence championship is very close," he said. He also seized the opportunity to urge Yanga members to continue registering themselves technologically insisting that this is very important as it will help the club to have a good database of its members. Again, the CEO clarified that the coming in of new goalkeeping trainer Milton Nienov does not mean that the existing goalkeepers coach Razack Siwa is moving out of the club. "At Yanga, we have got at least five teams as such; his (Nienov) arrival is just to enhance performance of our goalies to make it much better," he narrated. The Brazilian who is not new in the country as he paraded at Simba before being sacked was officially unveiled on Saturday at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. For Coastal Union, the loss was another setback to them as they missed out an opportunity to grab essential three points to keep stepping up the league ladders despite putting on a spirited performance. Their American coach Melis Medo conceded a second home defeat at the helm of the club and his fourth overall loss in the unfolding league as they cherish 17 points from their 12 played encounters.