TEN men Mbeya City handed Simba their first defeat following their 1-0 win at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. The loss was a double blow to Simba as it gave the league leaders Young Africans a huge leap towards the championship. The  hosts   Mbeya  City   broke  the  deadlock  in  the  19th   minute  through   Paul  Nonga  who  tapped  the  ball inside  the  net  past  goalkeeper  Aishi  Manula. The scorer capitalised on  Henock Inonga’s defensive blunder. The  goal  came  from a long  ball  after  Mbeya  City   cleared   an  attack  in  their  goal  and  the  ball  found Frank  Kobela  who sent the ball to the scorer. Nonga, a prolific scorer, charged  inside  the  box  and  scored. Despite  going  into  the  breather  a  goal  down, Simba dominated  the  first half, but they failed  to turn  the  chances  they  created  into goals. In the second  minute,  Chris  Mugalu  goal   was  disallowed  for  an   offside. Simba   came knocking on Mbeya  City’s  goal  and  in  the  26th   and  41st minutes  respectively  when  Mzamiru  Yassin header  went  off  target   with  goalkeeper  Deogratius  Munishi    out  of  the  goal  and Kibu  Dennis  connected  well  Bernard  Morrison’s  cross   but  his  header  went  a few  inches  off target. The hosts  also  had  few  chances  which  came in the   4th  minute through Juma  Luizio  who  was  in  a good position  to score  but  he shot  off  target. In the  8th  minute,    Samson  Madeleke   made  a long  range    attempt   which was superbly  saved  by   goalkeeper  Manula  who  pushed  it  away for  a corner  kick In the  43rd  minute,  the hosts Mbeya City got  a major blow   after  their  skipper  Mpoki  Mwakinyuke  was  sent   out  by  referee  Raphael  Ikambi   after  a  second  yellow card. The  Mbeya  City  defender was punished for  fouling  Mugalu who was  charging  into  the  box. In the  resumption   Simba  brought  in  striker  John  Bocco  who replaced  Mzamiru  Yassin  after he sustained  injury  in  the  first half. The  sub nearly  paid off  in  the  46th  minute  when Simba  were awarded  a spot  kick  after  Mbeya  City  defender  Kenneth  Kunambi  handed  the  ball inside  the  box  in an effort to clear  the  ball. However, Mugalu who stepped in   to take the  shot,  failed  to convert  the  penalty  after his  shot  hit  the  post. Seeing  things  were  not  going   well on  their side,  Simba   introduced  in  Pape  Sakho  and  Meddie Kagere   for Kibu  Dennis  and  Jonas  Mkude  respectively  and  in the 70th   minute   they could  have  levelled the  matter, but  Munishi   denied  them with a good  save. Meanwhile,  Simba  who are also   the   defending  champions of the  Azam  Sports  Federation   Cup (ASFC) will  face  Dar City  FC  in the  round  of 32  while  their  traditional archrivals  Young  Africans   will   battle it with  Mbao.