THE government has finalized process to introduce an Early Identification and Interventions Guideline which sets out appropriate ways to identify children with disabilities and essential services that should be provided to them. Deputy Minister, Prime Minister’s Office (Labour, Youth, Employment & Persons with Disability), Patrobas Katambi said this in the Parliament on Friday when responding to question from Ally Hassan King (Jang’ombe) who sought to know the government’s strategy to identify children with disabilities and support them with essential services. In his basic question, the lawmaker wanted to know when the government will come up with a sustainable strategy to support children with disabilities living in difficult environments. Katambi replied that the government has been taking several measures to protect children from harm and ensure that they live in a safe environment. He said a special register for identification of children with disabilities living in the most risk environment has been established where over 70000 children have been identified. “Every child has the right to education and we should all make sure that they are provided with the opportunity to learn in a conducive environment. So, the government has been ensuring that special groups including children with assorted disabilities live happily and are supported to achieve their dreams,” the deputy minister noted. The government has been identifying the children as per the National Policy on Persons with Disabilities, 2004, laws and regulations. He said the government has also continued to strengthen the provision of inclusive education including training more teachers to support children with disabilities achieve their education dreams. The deputy minister further said children with disabilities living in the most vulnerable situations are provided with services through various interventions including education through special and integrated schools. “The government has also been taking them to the hospital for medical treatment, giving life skills with the aim of building their capacity to become self-reliant and self-protective; provide them with initial mobilization and stabilization services; return them to their families or placing them to families (Fit Families); connecting them to specialized colleges for the provision of skills and rehabilitation services; and for those who do not have relatives or parents are sent to children’s homes for various services,” he explained.