THEY appear to be small ports in size but their potential in terms of business and economic significance to the nation cannot be underrated at all, thanks to improvements carried out by Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA). Lindi and Kilwa ports located in Lindi Region and Nyamisati terminal located in Kibiti District, Coast Region, have proved to be potential, playing an integral role in handling cargo destined for the Comoros, Zanzibar, Mafia and some Islets in the Indian Ocean. Due to their economic significance, the government through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) injected billions of shillings to upgrade them, a decision that has now attracted more traders to use the ports in transporting commodities to various destinations in the Indian Ocean. However, ports’ officers say business opportunities that have been brought about by the three upgraded terminals are yet to be fully exploited partly due to failure by traders and even local government authorities to come up with plans to grab the opportunities. It should be known that apart from serving Mafia, Zanzibar and the Comoros, the three terminals also serve some islets found in the Indian Ocean such as Simbaulanga, Sarali, Bwejuu, Kiasi, Mchinga, Songosongo and Mfisini. Lindi Port Officer, Erick Nyagali says traders in the region have been using the terminal to ferry items such as timber, charcoal, seaweed, salt, cooking oil, refrigerators, bicycles and other merchandise to various destinations in the Indian Ocean. According to Nyagali, there is an enormous business opportunity involving meat between Lindi Port and the Comoros, which is still yet to be fully exploited by Tanzanian traders, urging members of the business community to grab the opportunity. Historically, Lindi Port started its operations during colonial times when it was being used as a landing site before it underwent major rehabilitation in the 1980s. Between 2016 and 2018 TPA injected over 3bn/- for the construction of a new berth (jetty). A jetty is a landing stage or a small pier at which boats or dhows can dock or be moored. Before the improvement of the port’s infrastructure the terminal was handling not more than 1,000 tonnes per annum but to-date it can handle up to 5,700 tonnes. Currently, motor powered dhows are vessels that frequent the port due to the fact the berth requires dredging to remove bottom sediments, including sand brought to the port site by Lukuledi River as it flows to the sea. “There is a need to extend the jetty towards the sea by100 metres if we want to get rid of dredging. If we do it the berth will be able to accommodate big vessels as opposed to today when the facility accommodates vessels of 60-70 metres in length,’’ Mr Nyagali says. During low tide the depth of the berth is four metres while during high tide the depth increases to seven metres. He adds: “There are a lot of business opportunities that Lindi traders can exploit in the Comoros. We can ferry a lot of items such as meat, juicy, mattresses and other home merchandise to the Island. Concerted efforts by TPA, regional and local government authorities must be made to market this port.” According to Nyagali, a five-tonne mobile crane is needed to facilitate cargo handling at the terminal. Kilwa Port Apart from handling cargo, Kilwa Port boasts its pride of being a terminal that ferries tourists visiting tourist attractions at Kilwa Kisiwani and Songo Mnara. It is at Kilwa Kisiwani where the Portuguese established a Fort in the 16th century. Kilwa Kisiwani and Songo Mnara are widely known for harboring ruins of the colonial trading cities. According to history, the prosperity of the colonial trading cities was based on the control of Indian Ocean trade with Arabia, India and China, particularly between 13th and 16th centuries when gold and ivory from hinterland was traded for silver, carnelians, perfumes, Persian faience and Chinese porcelain. According to Acting Port Officer Theophil Kaiza, in 2020, Kilwa Port received and served three cruise ships with tourists who were visiting tourist attractions in the area. Due to effects brought by Covid 19, the number of cruise ships that docked at the terminal last year dropped to one. The terminal handles cargo destined for the Comoros, Zanzibar, Mafia, including the neighboring areas of Kilwa Kisiwani, Songo Mnara and Pande. The terminal also operates some landing sites of Kilwa Somanga, Kivinje and Songosongo. Items ferried to various destinations through Kilwa Port include cement, cooking oil, fish, timber flour, sugar, beans and charcoal. The terminal and its landing sites, according to Kaiza, handles a minimum of 500 tonnes of cargo per month but in peak season the amount of cargo handled rises up to 1,300 tonnes. Kaiza says Kilwa Port is geographically located near the Comoros (Comoro), giving it a competitive advantage over other terminals in handling cargo destined for the Island. He said in the 2020/2021 financial year, Kilwa Port surpassed the target by handling 14,000 tonnes of cargo from 9,000 tonnes targeted, adding that this financial year, the port is likely to handle 20,000 tonnes. The unique feature that also gives Kilwa Port a unique character is the depth of its berth. According to Kaiza, the berth’s depth ranges between 7 and 9 metres during low tide and between 13 and 15 metres during high tide. Understandably, the geographical location of the port supported by the depth of water at the site prompted the government to come up with the plan to construct the fishing port for deep sea fishing activities and a fish processing industry. Already, the government has set aside 50bn/- for the project. Nyamisati Port, case study of formalized ports The terminal, which is located in Kibiti district, Coast region was previously operating as an unofficial port before TPA formalized it. Port Operation Officer Julius Killua says having formalized it, the Authority injected billions of cash for the construction project that started in 2018 to 2019 before operations kicked off in 2020. As opposed to Lindi and Kilwa ports, Nyamisati handles passenger vessels plying between Nyamisati and Mafia Island. Vessels operating between the two destinations are MV Kilindoni (Government- owned vessel), MV Songosongo (Governmentowned vessel) and MV Captain (Private vessel). Killua says the terminal, by and large, handles cargo destined for Mafia Island and some Islets around the district. Commodities ferried through the port include construction materials, agricultural, food, forest and petroleum products and other home merchandise. The terminal handles 4,000 tonnes of cargo per month. Apart from Mafia Island, which is the major destination, the terminal also serves islets in the Indian Ocean such as Simbaulanga, Bwejuu, Mchinga, Kiasi, Sarali, and Mfisini Killua called upon the government to construct the road that leads up to the terminal from Dar es SalaamMtwara highway to the tarmac level. He also called upon manufactures of various commodities in Dar es Salaam to consider building godowns at Nyamisati area from where traders from Mafia Island can collect commodities before ferrying them to the Island through the terminal. “There is plenty of space here at Nyamisati. Wholesale traders and manufactures of commodities should consider building godowns for their goods so that traders from Mafia can pick goods from here instead of forcing them to go to Dar es Salaam. This increases consumer prices to residents in Mafia,” he said. All ports’ officers called upon the government, through TPA, to consider availing cargo handling equipment of medium scale to their terminals to facilitate loading and offloading of cargo. TPA Public Relations and Communication Manager Thomas Mushi says the Authority has been injecting billions of cash into port expansion projects to attract mega vessels to dock in Tanzanian ports and quicken cargo handling procedures. He says traders in and outside Tanzanian have now all the reasons to use Tanzania’s ports since services offered are of international standard. He says President Samia Suluhu Hassan has dished out a total of 500bn/- for the procurement of cargo handling equipment to be available to all major ports before doing the same to small ports in the country.