NBC Premier League leaders Young Africans have a chance to reestablish the 8-point gap at the summit of the league table if they defeat Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in Morogoro today. It is solo mid-week fixture that stamps the climax of the league's first round and the 15th league match for the Jangwani-based side. Both teams, however, are chasing the maximum three points. For Yanga the win will intensify the position at the helm while the win to Mtibwa Sugar will help the team in shrugging off relegation threat. The championship race is still wide open and at almost half way it is not a clear which side will clinch the title. Football fans must sit back, relax and enjoy the footwork. However, today's encounter is tense to the both sides as the hosts Mtibwa Sugar have vowed to end Yanga's 14-match unbeaten run at their Manungu arena located in the heart of sugar plantations. From 14 games played, the Morogoro-based outfits have bagged 12 points after winning two games, drawing six and losing six encounters. Generally, the ride has been tough for the former Premier League champions and if they fail to make a quick U-turn, then they will also be battling to escape the season's relegation jaws like what they did last season. In his remarks yesterday, the club's Information Officer Thobias Kifaru boasted about his side saying they have had enough preparations ready to upset the league leaders. "To our side, we are ready and the squad is in a vibrant mood to welcome Yanga, one of the biggest football clubs in the country. We are aware that it will be a tough encounter, but our objective is to snatch all three points," Kifaru said. On his part, Yanga's Spokesperson Haji Manara said they will approach the game with much respect, but insisted they are determined to win they aimed. "Our season's target of claiming the league championship remain unchanged and in order to achieve that, we need to win difficult away matches of Mtibwa Sugar’s caliber that’s why we have a task to ensure that we obtain the desired victory," he said. In their past league match, Yanga dropped crucial two points after being held to a barren draw by Mbeya City at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam which was their third draw of the campaign. Hence, a win today will help to drive back the Jangwani street giants on the track even though regardless of the outcome at the end of the match, Yanga will continue to command the 16-team table. According to Manara, they expect to miss the services of winger Jesus Moloko who has picked up injury recently as well as Dickson Job who is serving a three-match suspension. He added that the good news to Yanga family is the return to action of right-back Juma Shaban whose three match ban has ended; hence he is eligible to play as per preference of the Head Coach, Nasreddine Nabi.