THE Contractors Registration Board (CRB) has revoked registration of 4,000 contractors for different reasons including abandoning sites. The Board Registrar Engineer Rhoben Nkori revealed this over the weekend at a closing of a three - day training for local contractors on contract management. He said the decision to revoke registration of the contractors was made after the CRB tried its best to issue warning to the contractors on bad practices during the execution of construction projects. “When we are not satisfied with the performance or trend of the contractor we take the responsibility to call him and give a warning so that he rectifies his behaviours but if he does not change we revoke the registration,” he said. According to Engineer Nkori, any contractor whose registration gets revoked is not allowed to practice anywhere in the country,” he said. In another development, Engineer Nkori urged contractors to read their contracts between the lines before they sign so that they can be clear with all the terms to avoid inconveniences during the execution of the projects. He said experience shows that some of the contractors have been signing contracts immediately after they have seen figures (money) without concentrating on what is contained in the contracts. “Some of the contractors dump contract documents in their shelves after they have signed but I am telling you every time read the contract. When you see anything wrong go back to your contract and read between the lines to know what you are supposed to do. Don’t hurriedly sign the documents simply because you want people to see you at the site. It is better to remain jobless for a while rather than having a project which will make you sleepless,” said Engineer Nkori. Director of Florida Women Empowerment, Theresia Komba, asked the government to facilitate women contractors who don’t have enough experience in the profession so that they can be able to carry out big project. “Women contractors are denied constructions project for the criteria that they don’t have enough experience so if they will be empowered they can do wonders,” she said. Komba also asked banks and financial institutions to give priority to women contractors and give them loans whenever they are in need so that they can be able to implement their projects upon winning tenders. “We have capital challenges but if we are financially empowered by banks and other financial institutions we can do wonders. No one is born with experience, it is gained slowly when you get tenders regularly. So, they must trust and give us support because we can,” she said.