THE Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Stephen Kagaigai, said the government in the region will adhere to Tanzanian and African ethics ​​while implementing the National Residential Addresses and Postcode System. Mr Kagaigai made the remarks on Tuesday in Moshi, in Kilimanjaro region, during the launching of exercise in Kilimanjar, an event which involved government officials from all levels of administration within the region. “This is a historical exercise, therefore it is important to be very carefully when it comes to naming streets or roads; it is due to this factor that the issue of good ethics must be emphasized”, he said. In ensuring that, Mr. Kagaigai directed the leaders of all councils in the region to co-operate and work closely together during the exercise so as to ensure that participants put in consideration all the criteria needed when it comes to naming the streets and roads during the exercise. According to him in the exercise within the region would involve 519 villages, 60 streets and 2,260 hamlets, whereby he expressed his optimism that it would be conducted carefully, successfully and completed on time. “This exercise is very important to the country and its people due to the fact that it will help in facilitating development programs, researches meant for planning of the intended development programs, ensuring the safety of the country, ease local and international trade, as well as increasing the national income”, he noted. During the occasion Mr. Kagaigai directed government, other public institutions as well as private individuals, to make sure that they protect land infrastructures under their custody from encroachers so as to avoid land conflicts. "There are areas especially those owned by government institutions, whereby despite having legal documents that show that they own the land, still there are conflicts, some of which have been submitted to my office", he said. He continued to say that such conflicts could make the postcode exercise difficult, whereby he directed all government and public officials to make sure they protect the lands owned by the institutions so as to avoid possible but avoided conflicts. Earlier, when briefing the participants during the occasion, the Kilimanjaro region’s coordinator of the exercise Mr. Richard Emily said the exercise if completed would help in reaching many citizens in both rural and urban areas when implementing development issues which need physical or documented communications. “Statistics shows that there are 143,000 post office boxes, this is a small number compared to more than 50 million Tanzanians intended to be reached I one way or another; this clearly shows the importance of the postcode exercise which will help to reach many Tanzanians when completed”, he added. Mr Emily continued to say that the completion of the exercise would also help ease services by emergency service providers like the fire brigade, whereby he said fighting vehicles could reach areas of fire incidents easily because of the availability of reliable identification of people’s geographical addresses.