FORMER President Jakaya Kikwete has expressed his happiness to see that farming has become a profitable occupation for majority of Tanzanians. He said the revolution has come about because farmers are using to the utmost, all types of help offered by the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) and the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot). Accompanied by Agra Vice-President, Ms Aggie Asimwe Konde, the ex- president told agriculture reporters on their tour that he is impressed by the way farmers have improved, especially by using well the knowledge, material help, including working capital, given by the two organizations. He was vividly overwhelmed with joy to see local projects run with external help are being executed with diligence, efficiency and focusing on the needs of farmers. Dr Kikwete, who is an Agra board member, has embarked on a week-long field tour of agriculture project, which are supported by Agra and partners in the country. During the tour, Dr Kikwete, will visit agro-dealers, food processors, aggregation and storage facilities. He will also visit seed companies, demonstration plots, farmers as well as key public and private sector leaders in Iringa and Mbeya, Katavi, Tabora and Dodoma regions. All these are Agra-supported initiatives, which are making a difference in improving livelihoods of smallholder farmers in Tanzania and accelerating industrialisation drive and export trade. Dr Kikwete and the delegation embarked on the tour in Iringa and Mbeya regions on Monday. “The whole idea behind facilitation is to see Tanzanian famers improving their production through their day to day economic activities, by giving them applicable knowledge and working capital, so that they can engage in efficient farming,” said the ex-president. He added: “We have seen how farmers are being consulted in projects we are supporting; progress is now vivid, in the sense that if it is the seed we sow recently that has sprouted and growing very fast.  This is the source of our consolation and comfort.” Dr Kikwete said the close cooperation between Agra and Sagcot will solve many of the problems that have impeded profitable farming in Tanzania. The biggest challenge, he said, has been that many Tanzanian farmers lack knowledge on profitable farming, storage and how to access markets.  But with Agro-Sagcot cooperation, he said, the challenge will be tackled fittingly, farmers do their business with a guarantee to get quality products and that are competitive in the market. In a relaxed mood, Dr Kikwete quipped: "I am the one who started Sagcot. I am overwhelmed to witness the huge development strides that have been made by our people in this region as a result of my idea.  I appeal to Sagcot to increase cooperation with Agra and other agricultural stakeholders to develop Tanzania’s agriculture. Farming is a very important sector in the development of our nation,” he said. “Agriculture is a critical pathway to economic prosperity and poverty reduction in Tanzania, supporting livelihoods of approximately 65 per cent of the population, accounts for about 27 per cent of our GDP and contributes 24 per cent of total exports. I am taking this tour as a member of the board’s projects committee which oversees delivery and also have keen interest in agricultural transformation for the benefit of smallholder farmers in Tanzania and across Africa,” the former president said. Dr Kikwete added that Agra is currently consulting with the government, donors and partners on the strategic priorities in Tanzania for the next strategy period. The Green Valley Agro (GVA) Director, Ms Anna Mwaringa, told the visitors that their company works very closely with farmers by giving them requisite knowledge so that they can engage in profitable farming. “Our preoccupation now is smart farming. We engage farmers so that they can produce efficiently quality crops,” she said.  GVA produces a variety of seeds, including tomato, pepper and fruits seeds. The Managing Director of Silverlands, Mr Sean Johnson, told the visitors that their company will continue to cooperate with Agra and Sagcot in developing agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors.  The company produces animal feeds. Agra has been supporting Tanzania’s agriculture, since 2006. This has seen significant investments made across the ecosystem to the tune of 8.7 million US dollars. Work has included developing crop varieties, training scientists and research infrastructure, strengthening extension services, providing market, and financing linkages, supporting agro-dealers and the government’s policy reforms.