THE government will in five years period complete construction and rehabilitation of all old primary schools nationwide which are in bad shape, Deputy Minister of State in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr David Silinde told the Parliament. He said the government is aware of the outdated infrastructures in some of the old primary schools, saying they are in a programme to have them renovated to the needed standards. Mr Silinde said the government has finalised repair of old secondary schools thus moving their focus to old public primary ones. The Deputy Minister gave the sentiments here yesterday when answering a main question of Ms Maimuna Mtanda (Newala Rural -CCM) on when the government will renovate old public primary schools, whose infrastructures are in bad shape. He further said the government has started the renovations through a number of education projects. Mr Silinde expressed the government commitment to ensure they have in place a conducive learning and teaching environment for all education levels including primary schools. He named some of the education projects which are supporting the government in renovations and rehabilitation of the dilapidated old primary schools infrastructure as Education Programme for Results (EP4R). He added that in the 2021/22 financial year, the government through the EP4R has undertaken construction of 1,970 primary schools’ classrooms, 5,303 pit latrines and 17 teachers’ houses in a bid to improve the education infrastructures. Furthermore, he said, through the International Monetary Fund (IMF)- Covid-19 relief fund (TCRP) the government has constructed 3,000 classrooms. On top of that, he said, the government through the BOOST projects which is being implemented in primary schools, intends to construct additional 12,000 classes in the 2022/23 financial year, vowing to spend local funds through the local government for the construction and rehabilitation of the old primary schools countrywide.