Dear nephew Milambo GREETINGS from this sunny city of Dar es Salaam My dear nephew, I hope that by the grace of Limatunda you and your entire family are doing fine, including all the people of my beloved Ukumbisiganga. Here in the confused city, things are not bad, although the sun is still terrorising us mercilessly, but we thank Liwelelo that in terms of health, we are all okay. Your aunt sends her warm greetings to you and your family, and she says that she misses you guys terribly. Right now she is preparing to go for a conference in Mwanza, so she is running up and down. She is insisting that I should accompany her for the trip, but I told her that she should just go ahead without me, because you know at my age I just need to do things easy, considering that I am not as young as I used to be. Mwanza is a very beautiful city my son, I think you should make a point of visiting one of these fine days, because apart from the perfect weather, the place is famous for availability of fresh fish, especially tilapia, the one they call ‘sato’. I remember the last time I went with your aunt, I feasted on fresh fish until I began smelling of fish, because as you know my son, I am always in love with fish, and I can eat them the whole day without getting tired of them. A trip across Lake Victoria is something you should experience my dear son, because nothing can describe the tranquility of the gentle waves and the cool breeze. I am told that mzee Sufiani passed away in his sleep recently, and I felt sad over his demise, because that old man has played a very big part in my life, especially his precious wisdom which helped in forming me into the person that I am today…. may Allah grant the old man eternal peace. My dear son, a few days ago the whole world celebrated a crazy tradition called Valentine, which comes every year on the 14th of February, and just like your aunt, she went along with the spirit. It is a very crazy celebration my dear boy, and I hope that it does not spread its roots to my beloved Ukumbisiganga, because I know it will be tough for most of the young men in the village. This celebration involves people wearing red clothes and sending flowers, roses for this matter, to loved ones. I tried to get more information about this silly celebration, and I gathered that it involved a certain Roman fellow called Valentine from the 3rd century, who became famous for writing love notes. As I am writing this, I am still wondering why a Roman fellow managed to influence Africans, because if you ask me my son, I think this continent has enough ancestors for us to concentrate on a white Roman ancestor. I think I should make a point of meeting the president so that I can convince her to set aside a day to celebrate the achievements of Chief Mirambo, I think that will make more sense than celebrating this Roman fellow by murdering innocent flowers. Anyway, as I told you, your aunt who always tries to go parallel with the changing times practically dragged me out of the house and took me to a fancy hotel where there were flowers all over, and before I forget, she was wearing a stunning red dress. For a moment I thought that the place did not have electricity, because the whole place was lit by candles on every table, and I could see that almost all the women were wearing red outfits. My wife told me later that the candles were meant to create a romantic atmosphere, whatever that is, which to me is a silly idea, because you can never create a man through lighting candles. I have to point out that the efforts by your aunt to make me wear a brand new red shirt bore no fruits, and it nearly ruined the whole evening, because I don’t want to appear like a traitor by celebrating a white Roman fellow, I don’t think the ancestors will forgive me. In this confused city, the people were busy celebrating this weird celebration, and I was told by someone that hotels were fully booked because people wanted to express their ‘love’. You see son, I told your aunt that loving someone should not be confined to one day, especially a day brought about by a white Roman fellow. My source of information told me that the residents of this city, especially the young fellows, used the day to prove their manhood, and the funny part is, even the women were waiting for it. Where we were seated with your aunt that day, there was a couple sitting two tables from us, and I could see that the young lad was trying very hard to be ‘romantic’ to a woman who was old enough to be his mother. He went down on his knees and presented red roses to the woman, who started to sob in joy, and right in front of our eyes they began to kiss as if their lives depended on it, and I could see your aunt was starting to get some weird ideas. But Limatunda is great, because that show of ‘love’ was interrupted a few minutes later when a fellow who was built like a prize bull entered the place, and went straight to the table of the ‘loving’ couple. As it happened, he was the husband of the woman who was wearing a tight red dress with red lipstick to match the whole setup, and within a very short time the young ‘romantic’ fellow went back on his knees, but this time begging for his life. We learned later that the young fellow was involved in a very indecent affair with the woman who was the wife of the prize bull, and had it not been for my flawless neskills, that fellow would have suffered a broken neck.