AFTER Tanzania won a ticket to host the first European Challenge Trophy going as the Mount Kilimanjaro Classic this year, Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) believes a similar event for ladies will be staged in Tanzania in the near future. The event to be co-sanctioned by the Challenge Tour and Sunshine Tour is jointly organised by the Tanzania Tourism Board, Tanzania Golf Union and the hosting club, Kilimanjaro Golf Estates ahead of its official tee off on April 4th this year.
The Mount Kilimanjaro Classic brings together over 156 men’s top professional golfers across the World. Tanzania has been given 8 slots in the prestigious competition whose chief sponsor is the government.
Chris Martin, a TGU Chairman told the ‘Daily News’ from Arusha yesterday that the time has come to think about ladies too.
“Everything is possible, we are starting with men, but I think in the future we can turn to ladies events, all we need is powerful sponsorship to fund it,” he said.
Martin added that they are excited and very grateful to President Samia Suluhu Hassan for allowing the government to sponsor the Kilimanjaro Classic and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism for bringing the event to Tanzania.
The event will promote golf tourism in Tanzania as well as the game itself.
Neighbouring Kenya for the second time has organised the Magical Kenya European Ladies open that brings together 96 global level golfers and this time it was staged at Vipingo Ridge, in Mombasa over the weekend.
Tanzania top ladies including All Africa Challenge Trophy Individual Champions Madina Idd are hopeful to play in the maiden event after TGU asked the Kenyan organisers to give Tanzanians a few slots.
Martin, however, said their request letter has not been responded to by their counterpart.
Madina, who is also the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) Honorary Secretary, said they have to turn focus into future events, maybe start to campaign for the country to stage the event in future.
German Henseleit secured her second Ladies European Tour title with a one-shot victory in Kenya, three years on from winning the same event.
She capitalised on a disappointing final round from Linnea Strom to enjoy a successful title defence at the event after she overturned a three-shot deficit during a gripping final day.