FULLY–CHARGED Tanzanite are ready to floor Ethiopia as they face-off in the reverse match of the 2022 FIFA Under-20 Women's World Cup qualifiers in Ethiopia today. The country's envoys go into the game with a one- goal advantage after winning the first leg encounter 1-0 at Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar; hence they just need to repel a defeat in order to make journey on. A side which will win to- day will advance into the fifth and final round of the qualifiers where they will play one last two-legged fixture before earning a ticket to represent their country and Africa at the finals slated in Costa Rica in August. Tanzanite landed in Ethiopia on Wednesday with confidence to stamp the much needed victory led by Head Coach Bakari Shime who reiterated that their top objective is to make it further into the com- petition. "We are well prepared to face Ethiopia in the knockout game and to our side, everything concerning the match is in place and players are ready to put in practice what they have been learning," he said. Again, Shime described their camp pitched at Black Rhino Academy in Karatu, Arusha as a successful one saying the environment was peaceful and ideal to his charges ahead of today's meeting. "The victory we recorded at home, though not big enough, forces us to protect it bearing in mind that only two results either a win or an away draw will see us making it into the last stage of the qualifiers," he said. Again, Shime admitted that they are aware that today's game will not be easy as their opponents are also targeting the same chance to qualify but he insisted that they will play with lungs out to continue from where they stopped. The 2022 Women's Under-20 World Cup finals will be held in Costa Rica and the national flag carriers are eager to claim a slot of parading there and sell themselves to the rest of the world which will keenly follow the encounter. If Tanzanite qualify for the finals, it will be the first time they make it at the big stage of the women's football show- down, hence stamping a mem- orable history that will linger in people's hearts forever. Two teams from Africa will be selected to represent the continent at the finals, attracting 16 teams and Japan are the current defending champions after clinching it in 2018.