More banks and financial service providers will be added into the Central Bank’s new interoperable payment system, Tanzania Instant Payment System, next month after a successful pilot project that included four banks and two mobile network operators. The Central Bank’s Officer in the Department of Oversight and Policy, Fabian Kisole said in Mbeya on Wednesday that the pilot project of the new system that began in December last year went live with NMB, CRDB, NBC and Exim Bank as well as Tigopesa and Airtel Money. “The pilot project has been successful and the new system is now live. In March we are adding more banks and mobile network operators,” he said at a seminar for journalists organised by the Central Bank in Mbeya City. The Central Bank is implementing a project to build an interoperable digital payment platform which will allow transfer of payments between different digital financial service providers (DFSPs), both banks and non-banks such as electronic money issuers. TIPS is expected to boost financial inclusion by improving access and usage of financial services in Tanzania through promoting the interoperability of digital financial services amongst all Payment Service Providers in the country. The TIPS platform will facilitates an efficient clearing and settlement platform of digital financial services transactions for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs). It will also increase the efficiency by moving from bilateral interoperability to multilateral interoperability. Mr Kisole said inclusion of other banks and financial service providers in the second phase of the project would however depend on the readiness of the institutions to be taken on board. “The companies will be taken on board depending on their readiness to integrate their systems,” he said at the seminar that included journalists from Mbeya, Songwe, Iringa, Rukwa and Katavi regions. Preparations for the system were first undertaken in June 2018, and it was initially planned to be launched in June 2020 but was shelved as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tanzania’s payment industry is flourishing making the need for industry partners to work together to be inevitable. According to Mr Kisole, there are a number of potential benefits offered by interoperability of financial services including ease of payment, fast, cost effective and secure means of payments. The Bank of Tanzania as a regulator gives advice and setting policies to ensure smooth, safe and secure operations among parties involved. To date, various Payment Systems maintain bilateral agreements in order to facilitate payments for their customer wishing to make transfer of funds from one payment system provider to another.