FORMER President Jakaya Kikwete has com- mended legal and policy reforms which have been undertaken in the mining sector, eventually cata- pulting the sector to among the two leading for- eign exchange earners in the country. Dr Kikwete, particularly, showered praises on the sixth phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan for a steadfast leadership, lauding the Head of State for putting in place an enabling environment for investors and the focus on value addition for minerals. The fourth phase President was speaking during the ‘Madini Gala Night’ on Wednesday night after the closing of the International Mineral and Mining Conference 2021 which was held under the theme; “Enabling Environment for the Development of Tanzania Mining Sector.” Based on the reforms, he was highly positive that if all goes as planned then the mining sector will have a significant contribution in the economy of Tanzania Kikwete, who served in the ministry of water, energy and minerals for over a decade before he ascended to the presidency in 2005, recalled how past governments had tried to ensure the mining sector takes its right place in contributing to the development of the nation. “Small-scale miners have been operating for a long time in Tanzania but most of the minerals were smuggled out of the country and as a result the government neither got its revenues nor had records of the minerals,” Mr Kikwete told the gathering at the gala. Mr Kikwete, who served between the year 2005 and 2015, was equally impressed that the sixth phase government is walking the talk on implementation of the 3rd Five Year National Development Plan (FYDP III) 2021/2026. The third phase of the plan, whose first phase came into place during fiscal year 2010/2016, carries a theme; ‘Enhancing Tanzania Competitiveness in the Regional and Global Marketplace.’ “The theme means that Tanzania has to boost competitiveness to be able to compete with other countries in the region and globally. But you can only compete with others if you put in place a favorable environment to boost productivity,” he explained. Given Tanzania’s vast endowment of minerals, chemical minerals and gemstones, Dr Kikwete was upbeat that the mining industry has all it takes to push the economy and development of Tanzania to greater heights. On the other hand, the former president urged the government to provide more support to small-scale miners, who make a large chunk of miners in the country, noting their participation in the sector will translate into inclusion of more Tanzania. Another area he emphasized on was transparency on proceeds accrued from the extractive industry through the Tanzania Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (TEITI) which is the chapter of the global Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI). He also advised the government to have stable policies in order to attract more local and foreign investors since unpredictable policies tend to scare away foreign investors and encourage local ones into illegal mining. The Minister for Minerals, Dr Doto Biteko, told the gathering at the gala night that President Samia is determined to have the mining sector integrated with other sectors of the economy, generate employment opportunities and contribute to the economy. Dr Biteko on the other hand expressed his appreciation for the contribution of local and foreign mining stakeholders in the industry, noting that almost 95 per cent of activities in the mining sector are undertaken by the private sector.