THE International Finance Corporation (IFC) has pledged its support for the Private sector in Tanzania, in efforts to build a strong and sustainable foundation for the future. The promise was made here Thursday by IFC’s Managing Director, Mr Makhtar Diop at a news conference in Dodoma, a few minutes after holding talks with President Samia Suluhu Hassan at Chamwino State House in Dodoma. During tete-a-tete with President Samia, Mr Diop hailed the success that had so far been achieved under the sixth phase government, including controlling inflation. In their talks, Mr Diop told the president that his organisation was highly committed in helping the private sector in Tanzania, including looking at how best it can help petty businesspeople to flourish in their activities. Mr Diop further promised President Samia that IFC was ready to work with the country in the transport sector, especially the marine, so as to attract more investors coming into the country. In the conversations, President Samia thanked IFC for its commitment to the government of Tanzania, insisting that the State was ready to continue with the cordial cooperation with the organisation. At a press conference in Dodoma, Mr Diop analysed IFC’s support for the private sector in Tanzania, as well as their strategy to help the country recover from the economic impacts of Covid-19 pandemic. Flanked by the Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, the IFC’s Managing Director underscored the institution’s commitment to supporting Tanzania’s development agenda and future growth, including helping it create jobs and opportunities by mobilising the private sector. IFC, a sister organisation of the World Bank and member of the World Bank Group—is the largest global development institution focusing exclusively on the private sector in developing countries. The organisation believes that a strong and engaged private sector is indispensable to ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity. According to Mr Diop, IFC is the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets. “We work in more than 100 countries, using our capital, expertise, and influence to create markets and opportunities in developing countries,’’ he said. In 2021, IFC committed a record of 31.5billion US dollars to private companies and financial institutions in developing countries, leveraging the power of the private sector to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity as economies grapple with the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. During his maiden visit to Tanzania since becoming IFC Managing Director, Mr Diop met President Samia, Bank of Tanzania Governor Prof Florens Luoga, as well as the Minister for Finance and Planning. Mr Diop later met Tanzanian business leaders. IFC has recently supported projects in Tanzania’s housing and manufacturing sectors. Since 2015, IFC invested more than 300 million US dollars in Tanzania’s agriculture, light manufacturing, and infrastructure sectors, among others. Yesterday, Mr Diop expressed his commitment to working with the government in improving different sectors including pharmaceutical, agricultural as well as supporting the much touted Blue Economy ambition in Zanzibar by the Isles president, Dr Hussein Mwinyi. He further hailed the government for controlling inflation rate despite the impacts of Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Diop said the private sector had a significant role to play in supporting Tanzania’s recovery and helping it build a strong, sustainable foundation for the future. At a news conference yesterday, the Minister Nchemba said the government was appreciating the contribution of the private sector in the country’s economy. Dr Nchemba said he had fruitful discussions with Mr Diop in opening the opportunities for the government to collaborate with the private sector.