MOST life coaches will advise you to laugh a lot if you want “to live happily thereafter”. This column is about language goofs, but it is also meant to make you laugh, or at least smile. I hope you will find the following entertaining. You are applying for something big – a grant for that matter, to assist you with the cost of publishing something you have authored. Naturally, the grant givers want to know your name, first thing. The form you are filling in demands that. “Authors: [Sir-name, First-name Other Names]”. So, as an author you are supposed to fill in your SIR-NAME. What is a “sirname”, you wonder? You have never been knighted, so you do not deserve to be called a “Sir”, although, if you were attending an oral interview you may get a question like: “Your name, Sir”, posed to you. This form does not just want your name, it requires you to fill in your “Sir-name”. After consulting a colleague whose sense of humour has no limits, you both agree that what is required is your SURNAME, defined as a hereditary name common to all members of a family. Your “First name” is also required. This is also known as your “forename” or “given name”. I do not think you need a hyphen, in your first name, not: “First-name”. Then of course you can fill in your other names. Who knows, you might get knighted one of these days, say on the Queens’ birthday, and earn yourself a title: Sir so-and-so! You never know. Life is full of surprises. The writer of the article titled: “Rats everywhere, wise cats must choose what rats to eat” (Good Citizen on Sunday, 2 February, p. 8), has a sense of humour, although that does not give him the right to tamper with sacred word formations called “idioms”. He has, in his articles, this character, the “manywived” Mr H, who does so many things wrong, like for example the way he treats his wives: “The harem of women he calls his wives are left to feed themselves ‘by means foul and fair’”. No. The idiom is not: “by means foul and fair”. Rather, it is: “by fair means or foul”. This means using whatever methods are necessary, even dishonest and illegal methods, to achieve something (Remember Diego Maradona’s hand of god goal?). So, Mr H’s wives are left to fend for themselves by “fair means or foul”. Some of these women sell what the writer calls: “lethal drinks” by which he means: “Alcoholic drinks that can send to a two-weeks ‘comatose’ with drunkenness, an African elephant”. Given that “comatose” is an adjective, I would have gone for “half” of that word and written just: “coma”. This African elephant can be sent into a two-week coma with drunkenness, from the kind of stuff sold by some of Mr H’s wives. Mr H is also described as a: “jack of trades and a master of none”. Here, the writer has omitted an important function word: “all”. The idiom is: “a jack of ALL trades and a master of none”. Because of this, sometimes Mr H takes on too much, in which case, according to the writer: “He will spirit away what belongs to ‘employer’ and vanish in ‘the’ thin air”. The sentence could do with a minor surgery, shifting the word “the”, and positioning it before “employer”. It would then read as follows: “He will spirit away what belongs to ‘the employer’ and vanish ‘in thin air’”. He will just simply disappear to the unknown. You do not only vanish in this air. Sometimes you appear “out of thin air”, an idiom used to say that someone or something appears in a sudden and unexpected way. Like today’s heavy rain in Dar es Salaam! Good bye February, Welcome March! lusuggakironde@gmail.com