THE sixth session of the 12th Parliament starts its final week today with nine reports of the Parliamentary committees lined up for debate. The reports, among other things, provide overviews of government's activities as supervised by the committees and provide feedbacks on implementation of different directives from the committees to the government in the past one year. According to a time table released by the Office of the National Assembly Clerk, the MPs will discuss two reports on each day from today after the question-answer session in the afternoon. Before start of the Parliament sittings at 2pm, the MPs will be engaging in committees' meetings which start from Morning every day until Friday when the Parliament would be adjoined. Today, the Constitution and Legal Affairs Parliamentary Committee and that of Good Governance and Local Government Authorities will table reports over activities they have conducted in the past one year. The schedule indicates that tomorrow the MPs will also hear reports from Energy and Minerals Committee and the committee on infrastructures. The following day on Wednesday the Budget Committee and the Public Investment Committee ((PIC) will table their reports before the Parliament for discussion. The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Local Authorities Accounts Committee (LAAC) are scheduled to present their reports on Thursday ahead of adjournment of the Parliament on Friday when there will be only one report from the Subsidiary Legislations Committee. The sixth session of the 12th Parliament which begun two weeks ago, saw MPs electing new Speaker Dr Tulia Ackson and her Deputy Mussa Azan Zungu. The duo was elected following resignation of former Speaker Job Ndugai early in January. During the past two weeks, the legislators also discussed reports of different Parliamentary committees and endorsed two key bills. MPs showered praises and expressed optimisms on reforms in dispensing justice and dealing with issues of money laundering as the House endorsed the two Bills. These are Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) no 7 of 2021 and Anti-Money Laundering Bill 2022. The Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (NO. 7), proposes amendments to nine written laws, is set for second reading in the Parliament on Monday next week. It proposes amendments to written laws, namely; the College of Wildlife Management Act, (Cap. 209), the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights (Cap. 218), the Criminal Procedure Act (Cap. 20), the Economic and Organised Crimes Control Act (Cap. 200), and the National Prosecutions Service Act (Cap. 430). Others are the National Sports Council of Tanzania Act (Cap. 49), the Penal Code (Cap. 16), the Universal Communications Services Access Act, (Cap. 422), and the Veterinary Act, (Cap. 319). The Bill also proposes to amend the College of Wildlife Management Act, (Cap. 209). It is proposed to amend section 2 in order to eliminate from the Act definitions of certain terms which are no longer applicable in the Act. Finance and Planning Minister Dr Mwigulu Nchemba told the House that the Anti-Money Laundering Bill 2022 proposes amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering Act, Cap. 423 and make consequential amendments to other laws in order to address challenges in combating money laundering and countering financing of terrorism and countering the proliferation financing. The Bill proposes to make consequential amendment to five other laws, namely the Bank of Tanzania Act, Cap. 197, the Capital Markets and Securities Act, Cap. 79, the Insurance Act, Cap. 394, the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, Cap. 254, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Cap. 19 and the Proceeds of Crimes Act, Cap. 256.