EXIM Bank Tanzania and the Zanzibar Association of Tourism Investors (ZATI) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to boost the tourism sector in the historical Isles. The partnership brings a unique platform for both entities to ensure adequate promotion of all relevant information about tourism in Zanzibar is easily accessible across the globe and ensuring that ZATI members have access to solutions for all their financial service needs. Zanzibar Tourism and Antiquities Minister, Mr Simai Mohamed commended the move saying it was the first of its kind with specific performance indicators on both sides to enable the development of quality tourism facilities and activities across the Isles. “I believe that the move will further help several tourism stakeholders in Zanzibar that have been severely affected by the economic impact of Covid-19 to recover and eventually regain their economic potential. I call on other financial institutions to emulate this example by being closer to the tourism stakeholders, especially in this era where the government is focusing more on the blue economy ‘’ he said Tourism accounts for about 25 per cent of Zanzibar’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and up to 80 per cent of the Isle’s foreign exchange earnings. In his remarks, Exim Bank Chief Executive Officer, Jaffari Matundu emphasized that the goal is to continuously develop and grow the tourism industry of Zanzibar and Tanzania in general. “The hospitality and hotel industry accounts for a large part of our portfolio and we will continue to be active in it. Tourism is the ‘lifeblood’ of the Zanzibar economy and the bank would continue to focus on it, putting time, effort and capital into the sector. That is not changing” he insisted According to the three year MoU, the bank will provide number of financial solutions to all ZATI members such as corporate and SME loans, structuring loans according to cash flows, dedicated treasury sales dealer, competitive pricing in TZS/USD and all other currencies. For his part ZATI Chairman Rahim Bhaloo lauded Exim Bank for the partnership, saying the move will allow a strategic Zanzibar tourism industry to significantly increase its potential, rise services quality and further increase the attractiveness of the Isles for both domestic and foreign tourists.