MOSHI municipality in Kilimanjaro region is lively with multinationals as it heads to host the Kilimanjaro Marathon tomorrow. The three-race grand race has attracted thousands of runners who have been listed to compete for a score of cash prizes and medals in the 42km Full Marathon, 21km Half Marathon and the 5km fun race. “Festive mood is everywhere here in Moshi, runners from various countries are here to compete for top prizes and others just for fun,” notes Joseph Lyimo, who intends to compete in the 5km fun race. Everything is in place, according to the organisers of the Kilimanjaro Marathon, who insisted to the participants to complete collecting numbers as the exercise that started on Thursday heads to climax today in the municipality. The organisers said that once the exercise is over in Moshi at the Moshi Cooperative University (MoCU) today, no numbers will be issued any more. “Registered participants can send someone else to collect their numbers with a copy of their ID and the SMS from Tigo/details of the entries,” said the organisers. In Moshi the numbers collecting exercise, which has been conducted since Thursday is expected to climax today at 5pm. In retrospect, the organisers of the Kilimanjaro Marathon announced a new official supplier, Surveyed Plots Company (SPC) Ltd of Dar es Salaam who will award plots to the first male and female Tanzanian runners in this year’s 42km Full Marathon. “All costs associated with registering the land in their names, along with all legal frameworks around it will be the cost of SPC,” said the organisers. The SPC Head of Operations, Kenny Rogers, said they are proud to be part of the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon 2022. “This is a big event and a good avenue for us to market ourselves and our products as this is one of the biggest sporting events in the entire East African region and we thought this would be a fabulous opportunity to celebrate a truly Tanzanian event for its 20th Anniversary!” He said since there are two plots of land, there will be a ‘lucky dip’ of prizes to decide who gets which piece of land. “These plots are in two different locations and we do not want to decide which one goes to who hence it will be a lucky draw and the winners will get all the necessary documents in their name after the marathon,” he said. He called on Tanzanians to train harder in order to win these land incentives. “It is going to be quite competitive therefore those who train harder stand the highest chance of getting these prizes at the end of the day. On another note, the organisers said for the first time, they will host the Kili Expo (The People’s Expo) where sponsors and other stakeholders will get the chance to showcase their products and services for three days from Thursday, February 24 to today at the MoCU grounds. “The expo is meant to give the public a true Kili Marathon experience and we will also have number collection this time happening at MoCU and not Keys Hotel as it used to happen in the previous years,” said the organisers. Sponsors for this year’s 20th Anniversary event include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager- Main sponsor, Tigo 21km, Grand Malt -5km. Others are Absa Tanzania, Unilever Tanzania, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, Kilimanjaro Water and official suppliers, GardaWorld Security, Keys Hotel, Kibo Palace Hotel, Surveyed Plots Company Ltd, Tanzanian Tourism Board and CMC Automobiles. The Kilimanjaro Marathon will be flagged off tomorrow at Moshi Cooperative University (MoCU). The now global level grand race is organised by the Kilimanjaro Marathon Company Limited and is coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited.