THE government has pledged to continue creating a conducive environment for the flourish of the film industry, including promoting the welfare of those who are key players in the sector. Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa said this over the weekend in Dar es Salaam in a meeting with film stakeholders to assess the overall performance of the film industry. “To amicably achieve this, President Samia Suluhu Hassan has taken a frontline task to make a good path for the general success of culture, arts and sports sectors which play a crucial role in the country’s development. “For instance, one of the initiatives that the president has taken include the production of Royal Tour Film, which is set to advertise the country by promoting tourism as well as attracting investors in the film industry,” Mchengerwa said. He added that the president has also donated 2.5bn/-, which has been pumped into the film sector to facilitate the industry’s activities. He urged them to use the money wisely for the growth of the entire sector. “Time has come, and doors are now open. The president has heard the complaints you have had for so long as such; make sure that you fully concentrate on producing good works while aware that the government is with you all the time,” he said. Furthermore, Mchengerwa disclosed that players in the film industry have been struggling alone for a long time, but now, the government has stepped in to extend a helping hand to them. “This has never happened before, and I do not expect my colleagues, especially from the Tanzania Film Board, to paralyse the good intentions that the ministry have for you. Otherwise, stern action will be directed to those who will try to pull us backwards,” he cautioned. In a related development, the minister sounded tough on those who embrace conflict in the film sector, saying they should stop once if meaningful achievements are to be recorded. “This sector is important and requires us to work in unity, but instead, you have formed different camps among yourselves, which in turn propels conflicts...to be honest, we cannot prosper if we let this behaviour continue,” he said. Again, Mchengerwa noted that there was a time when the film industry made significant development to the extent that even Nigerians were far behind. Still, when conflicts were entertained, all the good deeds collapsed. “Now, I do not want to hear conflicting ideas among you. What you have to do is to put your differences aside and thrive on working together for the promotion of this essential sector,” he said.