THE sixth meeting of the 12th Parliament has just ended, with the country seeing several issues of national interests receiving huge attention and conclusion during the three-week House sittings. Before the start of Bunge businesses, the lawmakers elected Speaker and later on Deputy Speaker. The election saw Dr Tulia Ackson winning by a landslide, garnering all votes casted. Dr Tulia, who becomes eighth Speaker and second female Speaker in the country, fills the post left vacant by former Speaker Job Ndugai who resigned early January. After she was elected, she presided over the election of her Deputy at which the MPs elected Mr Mussa Azan Zungu. The three weeks of lively Parliament sessions witnessed the issue of reliable power supply, Ngorongoro land disputes, high prices of building materials as well as endorsement of two key Bills of Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) no 7 of 2021 and Anti-Money Laundering Bill 2022 attracting interesting debates among the lawmakers and the nation at large. Debate on power cuts was hot, with MPs calling for immediate measures from the government to address the problem, with some of them citing impacts on production sectors. Following the debate, the Energy Ministry said it has designed a major project to cost 1.9 billion US dollars (about 4.4tri/-) for upgrading and building new power substations and lines in a bid to stabilise the national electricity grid and address power cuts. Minister for the docket, Mr January Makamba, said his ministry came up with the project after noticing that the nation was facing regular power cuts due to instability of the national power grid brought about by insufficient number of substations and available few power lines working above their capacity. However, the minister did not go into details over when the project would start and the means of funding it. He said currently there are only 67 substations, while administratively the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has 132 districts. “Out of 67 existing substations, 39 are in Dar es Salaam. So, we have allocated funds to refurbish 19 substations and build 59 new substations,” Mr Makamba stated. Ngorongoro land dispute was another area, which left a landmark as MPs were divided on whether to remove communities living in the conservation area or leave them. The lawmakers who pushed for removal of Maasai communities were of the view that increased population and human activities was endangering the conservation area as one of world's heritage sites. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa assured that the government will amicably resolve land disputes in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. After the issue of Ngorongoro took a centre stage of the discussion, Premier Majaliwa explained that he personally started working on the matter as per the directive from the President Samia Suluhu Hassan, who wanted to see the problem resolved for good without causing clashes. During the session, the government also proposed a budget ceiling for 2021/22 to be 37.98tri/-, being an additional amount of 1.29tri/-. Out of the additional funds, a sum of 693bn/- which was sourced from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Covid-19 relief fund was channeled to financing construction of the third lot of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). Finance and Planning Minister Dr Mwigulu Nchemba presented proposals for an additional budget for 2021/22 fiscal year, which was a result of an extra budget endorsed by the House, including the soft loan of 1.3tri/- from the IMF. “Considering the budget trend from July to December 2021, the concessional loan from the IMF and commercial loan for financing the third lot of the SGR, it is proposed that the budget be pegged at 37.99tri/-,” Dr Mwigulu stated. The minister said as per agreement entered with the IMF, the secured fund has to be spent during the current financial year and was not part of funds endorsed by the Parliament in the 2021/22 financial year.