THE Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) hasencouraged businesses to register trade names and logo to eliminate the duplication and confusion of being used by two or more companies. The brand or name of the business should be unique and distinctive and should not be confused as each business should have its own logo, in other words they should not be identical. This was said Tuesday by BRELA Assistant Licensing Officer, Ms Yvonne Masele during theongoing 2022 ‘Kamilisha’ campaign at Mlimani city. “Registration gives them the advantage of legal ownership of their business namesthat should not be the same as anyone else. When a person does not register their name or logo it can be used by other people and conflict of interest can occur,” said Masele. Ms Masele said at present the registration of the logo and trade names has been simplified, unlike in the past when they were using manual means to achieve the same. "Currently the cases of one trade name being used by more than two companies have diminished because we are using a system that is easier to search. In the past we used to do them manually and it was easy to register the name twice,” said Masele. She said the process of registering a business name takes longer than two months to ensure that no one owns the name worldwide. "When a customer brings a request to register a name or logo we look at the system if it does not have another owner. Once we find it to be owned by someone else then they will have to be given a letter informing them that someone else owns it. If it is empty no one will be notified that it has been accepted and 60 days will be issued for public opinion notice,” she said. Either she appealed to businesses and the citizens to use the right people to access BRELA services to avoid fraud. Ms Masele said many of their clients face challenges before reaching their offices due to ignorance of technology useduring registration, as the agency currently registers online. "This is the situation that makes us leave office and follow the people to solve the online challenges they face," she said.