TANZANIA Renewable Energy Stakeholders Association (TAREA) Chairman, Engineer Prosper Magali, has urged entrepreneurs in the country not to fear taking loans for development, adding that their support saves businesses from economic collapse. Making the revelation, on Thursday in Dar es Salaam, he further said particularly those employed should take the advantage to boost their incomes, having in mind that at one point, they would retire, so the earlier the better in preparing any business to manage once out of salaried jobs. “Keep in mind that the activities you do now are like a vacation to retire to in the future…so if you spend all your holidays visiting people, then know that when you retire your job will be the same,” he added. Mr Magali who is also the Director of Design and Project Development of ENSOL (T) Limited that provides engineering services in the solar sector in Dar es Salaam, while referring to his book: ‘Anza, Kua na Stawi Katika Miradi na Biashara: Mbinu za Kipekee za Kuanzisha, Kukuza na Kuendeleza Miradi na Biashara’ noted that loans are the pillars of business. The booklet on the market answers a variety of questions on how to start and run a business or project; how to find entrepreneurial opportunities; education on business formalisation projects / projects under Tanzanian law and education on business taxes and loans. According to the entrepreneur, who is one of the founders of ENSOL (T) LIMITED said as there is no progress in entrepreneurship, business and projects without credit, it is necessary to borrow and use loans for the right purposes. “Don’t borrow to start a new business as a new business goes through a lot of hardships… before you start, read your business carefully before deciding to borrow and invest in productive resources before buying luxury items,” he pointed out. According to the expert, before borrowing it is important to have accurate information about loan procedures from various credit institutions, while being careful against loan agreements before signing to avoid contracts that will oppress you. “Borrow from institutions that offer various benefits to borrowers and focus on investing in resources that will help you get credit guarantees,” he said. In the book, Mr Magali mentioned important things in entrepreneurship as including, “thinking of starting a big business has made many people unable to start and eventually, completely unable to do the things they wanted.”These sources suggest that in order to be financially secure, an entrepreneur must have at least three sources of income and, in fact, not to stop doing business out of fear of taxation.