MINISTRY for Information, Communications and Information Technology will in this month sign agreement for construction of 90 telecommunication towers for facilitating more access to telecommunication services. Deputy Minister for the portfolio, Eng Kundo Mathew, informed the National Assembly on Friday that the Minister, Nape Nnauye, will ink the agreement. Eng Mathew further noted that through the Universal Communication Services Access Fund (UCSAF)  the government was making initial steps for announcing tender for upgrading infrastructures for existing communication towers so that they provide better services. However, he could not go into details over costs, areas to be constructed and duration of implementation pending the signing event. His remarks were upon concerns from different legislators over challenge of telecom services in some parts of the country, especially in rural settings. Earlier, Ms Hawa Mwaifunga (Special Seat- CHADEMA) wanted to know when the government will complete doing improvements in telecom systems in Tabora urban constituency, particularly at wards located in the outskirts. She further asked when the government will erect telecom towers to address communication challenges at Itetemia ward. Responding, Eng Mathew said through the Universal Communication Access Service Fund (UCSAF) has done assessment in Tabora Urban constituency upon which it identified that 12 wards in the outskirts needed improvements in telecom services. Through the UCSAF, the government has brought communication services to three wards of Kabila, Kalunde and Uyui which are in the outskirts. Meanwhile, the construction of towers for 2G/3G and 4G network services was ongoing at Ndevela, Tumbi and Itetemia wards through the Halotel Company. At the remaining six wards the UCSAF will continue doing assessment to see a better means of improving communication services at the particular wards. He admitted that Itetemia ward was facing communication services, but through the UCSAF the government announced tender to acquiring a contractor for bring services to the ward whereby the Halotel Company won the tender and construction of the telecom tower for the ward was at final touches.