AMINA Khamis beat a strong field to claim the Weekly Fiddle’s overall title in the 18 hole tournament at Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo course in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Khamis fired an impressive three-under 39 stable ford points to win on countback at the par 72 course. It was also a good day for Zahara Zuberi, the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) Honorary Treasure, who finished as the runner up after shooting 39 points. Vicky Elias scored 34 points to win the silver category (handicap 0-18), while Sophia Mathias, who carved 32 points, grabbed the runner-up title. In the bronze (handicap 19-36) category, Rehema Athumani claimed number one position after hitting one-under 37 points to win the top prize. She also won the nearest to the pin award. Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) ladies captain Maryanne Mugo finished runner up after returning 31 points. Lugalo’s Ladies captain, Hawa Wanyeche, also smiled after emerging the winner of the longest drive. The ladies captains from Lugalo and DGC ‘The Pink Panthers’ have recently decided to work together and rotate the weekly event between the two courses. After the first event held at DGC, the Lugalo event is the second, and they said they will continue to shift the event between the two clubs. Wanyeche, the Lugalo ladies Captain, commended the tournament’s sponsor, Yasmin Chali of Kukunde African Prints for supporting the tournament. “I want to thank Kukunde African Print for their support towards our tournament; we are proud of them,” said Wanyeche.
However, Wanyeche has opened the door to other sponsors to come forward and support the event as the ladies bank on the support to promote and develop the game. She was also grateful for the good response from the ladies who took their time to compete in the event, saying it was very important in reviving and harmonising friendship among the golfers. Others who took part in the event are Ayne Magombe, Yasmin Chali, Zumla Hamis, Epafra Ngweshemi, Amina Hamis, Leticia Kapalia, Iddah Kyanya, Asha Digilo, Alrida Inyasi, Hea-myung Rhee, Stela Mbunda and Neelam Srivastava.