PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan is today expected to meet with the French business community and investors in the wake of further strengthening trade and investment between the two countries. Ambassador of Tanzania to France, Samwel Shelukindo, informed the ‘Daily News’ over the telephone on Sunday that the president will be meeting with the French business community and investors this morning. “Later in the afternoon, the president will carry out a meeting with the French President Emmanuel Macron,” added Mr Shelukindo. According to Ambassador Shelukindo, on Sunday President Samia was scheduled to meet the Tanzania Diaspora living in France. In his weekly briefing held in Zanzibar on Sunday, Chief Government Spokesperson, Mr Gerson Msigwa, disclosed that President Samia’s meeting with the Tanzania Diaspora in France was sought to deliberate on various issues, including opportunities which can be secured by Tanzanians in France and the role of Diaspora in the country’s development. Highlighting on President Samia's working visit in France, he said the Head of State took part at a three-day High Level One Ocean Summit, in Brest, France which featured discussions on blue economy and taking action against threats to the ocean, pointing out that Tanzania is expected to reap huge benefits centered around the outcomes of the forum. While in France, he said the President carried out a tour at a popular entrepreneurship empowerment centre identified as Station F, a business incubator for startups, located in 13th arrondissement of Paris with on-campus and online tools, including a large investor network of more than 150 perks and offers 35 public services, and 600 events and seminars per year. "The goal of visiting the business incubator is to devise a mechanism for partnering with the centre for the country to benefit with the rich knowledge garnered there,” said Mr Msigwa. He pointed out that Tanzania and France have enjoyed long-existing ties, maintaining that the President's visit has weighed a lot of benefits for Tanzania. Mr Msigwa added: "For a long time now Tanzania has benefited from the two countries' relations ranging from the various development projects including financial support for the construction of the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) among many others." According to him, in the past ten years between 2010 and 2020, France through the French Development Agency (AFD) dished out financial support for the execution of various development projects at the tune of 590 million euros (equivalent to over 1.5tri/-). Among sectors that benefited with the financing include the infrastructure sector (bridges, roads, airports, primary schools and water projects), energy sector and environmental management. Others are the University of Dar es Salaam, the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA), agriculture, natural resources and cultural promotion. Aside from the concessional loans and grants, he identified the area of trade, disclosing that President Samia's visit in France is also aimed to bolster trade ties between the two countries. The Chief Government Spokesperson said statistics from 2020 indicate that the balance of trade between the two countries reached up to 150 million US dollars (equivalent to 343bn/-). “There are a number of French companies which have invested in Tanzania, likewise Tanzania was exporting various products to France,” he noted. Elaborating further, he pointed out that France possesses 40 major projects in key sectors including transportation, construction and energy valued at 167.7bn/- creating around 1,885 jobs due to the investment. While in France, President Samia has witnessed the signing of agreements aimed at strengthening trade, investments and bilateral relations between the two countries. The Government Spokesperson outlined the agreement including financing the development for the implementation of strategic priority projects in Tanzania. A concessional loan agreement worth 178 million euros (about 469.1bn/-) to finance the construction of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project phase five in Dar es Salaam and a concessional loan amounting to 80 million euros (208.6bn/-) to support the Tanzania Agriculture Development Bank (TADB) meet its short- and long-term lending goals to support farmers with much lower interest loans. Mr Msigwa said the country was committed to boost the agricultural sector as the backbone of the economy to be carried out productively by using modern technologies. “Inking of a grant agreement for 1 million euros (equivalent to 2.6bn/-) to further support the activities of the TADB, as well as two agreements between Tanzania-France cooperation in the areas of blue economy and maritime safety,” signifies commitment to propel the economy.   