THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has expressed its sincere appreciation to President Samia Suluhu Hassan for her support to the Authority in ensuring it improves its performance and service delivery to customers. Speaking to Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited reporters on Wednesday in Mtwara, TPA Public Relations and Communication Manager, Thomas Mushi said the authority remains thankful to President Samia for dishing out a total of 500bn/ for the purchase of equipment to improve service delivery. “In less ten months that President Samia has been in power TPA has received 500bn/- for the purchase of various equipment, including cargo handling tools. This support is enormous and we, at TPA, will work day and night to ensure we reach the target we have been assigned,” he said. According to him, in the first phase TPA received a total of 210bn/- before again receiving 290bn/- for the same purpose. Mr Mushi said, in this financial year (2021/2022), TPA has been given the target of collecting 1tr/- in revenue, expressing his optimism of reaching the mark, given the positive collection trend. He said since President Samia took over the country’s leadership she has been, in her personal capacity, serving as TPA ambassador wherever she goes, adding that during her leadership the flow of cargo ships into the country has so far been impressive. “We have seen President Samia marketing our ports whenever she goes, and in some instances she has been travelling with some other government and TPA officials who have also been performing such a role,” he said. Mr Mushi said apart from using other strategies to  market Tanzania ports, including Mtwara harbour outside borders, liaison officers stationed in Tanzania’s embassies an High Commission  offices in Malawi, DR Congo Uganda and Zambia , have also been doing the job. He said the strategy has proved to be successful after Tanzania recently received government officials from Zambia, Vietnam and Malawi who also made a familiarization tour of Mtwara Port. He assured TPA clients and the general public of improved service delivery at all terminals, saying the good flow of cargo ships into the country that is being witnessed now results from the customer satisfaction, brought about by quality services delivered, which is a key performance indicator. “When people see a number cargo ships queuing in the outer anchorage at Dar es Salaam port or at any other terminal, waiting to be brought to the docking yard to offload cargo, they shouldn’t think negatively about it. Such an increase in cargo ships results from customer confidence in our ports due to improvement in service delivery,” he said. According to Mr Mushi, efforts by President Samia’s government to market the country’s ports have seen some traders, who had previously opted to use some other ports in the neighboring countries, re-engaging Tanzania’s terminals. Tanzania has been receiving members of the business communities, government  officials and presidents from the neighboring land linked nations that use the country’s ports for, among other things, familiarising themselves with the operations of the harbours. Tanzania ports serves the Comoros, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Malawi, DR Congo, Zambia and some parts of Mozambique.