EAGER to end teen pregnancy and forced marriage in Rukwa region Plan International via its implementing partner, Youth Education through Sports Tanzania (YES -TZ) has formed an alliance with religious leaders. According to World Health Organisation (WHO) maternal complications during pregnancy and child birth combined, are the leading causes of death for girls aged between 15 and 19 years globally. The High Court of Tanzania Sumbawanga Zone Deputy Registrar, Mr Maira Saanane Kasonde says child marriage is any formal marriage or informal union in which one or both parties are 15 years old or under 18 years. “It is prohibited under international or regional laws” emphasizes Mr Kasonde. YES TZ is implementing project dubbed ‘Girls Get Equal Integrated Approach to end Child Early and Forced Marriages (CEFM)’ in Rukwa region. The CEFM project is funded by the Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD). The alliance was established recently during a workshop held at Saint Bakhita Health Science College at Namanyere Township in Nkasi District whereby clerics across the 36 CEFM project wards in Nkasi and Kalambo districts as well as Sumbawanga District Council were engaged. CEFM project is a five year- project (2020-2024) implemented by YES - TZ in partnership with Plan International Tanzania. Other implementing partners are RAFIKI - SDO and People’s Development Forum (PDF). The established alliance, according to YES - TZ Director, Mr Kenneth Simbaya aims at grasping clerics’ potentiality to reach project beneficiaries. Elaborating he further, he narrates that the initiative is a strategic approach by the CEFM Project to ameliorate adolescents in sexual reproductive health and rights (SRHR) end results. “Definitely religious leaders, regardless their denominations, reach many people who are beneficiaries of the project – being adolescents and their parents from both rural and urban precincts regardless of their socioeconomic status” he emphasizes. According to Mr Simbaya the alliance is a strategic step envisioned by CEFM project being an eager drive to reduce or eliminate incidences of teen pregnancy and forced marriage as well as sexually transmitted diseases across the 36 project wards in the Southern Highland region of Rukwa. The workshop facilitator Mr Frank Leonard from Iringa region urges clerics to actively engage community leaders in a process that would help behavior and social changes also promote and sustain behavior changes. He emphasizes that religious, clan, community and village leaders should play a noble role in a crusade to normalize behaviors at both households and community levels. “The latest available statistics show that early and unintended pregnancy among teen girls is still rampant in Rukwa region, as it is influenced by contextual factors at the individual, community, interpersonal and societal levels. “It paramount that clerics should address your congregations because as a matter of fact teen pregnancy and forced marriages are a global challenge that needs to be address as it is violating girls’ human rights, shuttering their dreams as well as harming their health,” notes Mr Leonard. He further explains that adolescents need the knowledge and skills to protect their health and lives as well as establish or maintain healthy relationships,” insists the facilitator. Rukwa Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Boniface Kasululu cautions that adolescent mothers aged between 10 and 19 years face higher risk of eclampsia, puerperal endometritis and systematic infections than women aged between 20 and 24 years. Contributing his views, Sheikh Malik Mwananyema views the teen or early pregnancy and forced marriages as pure expression of gender inequality and structural patriarch. “Adolescent girls face lives that are directly dictated by controlling their sexuality, unlike boys,” he says. A catechist from Roman Catholic Church, Mr Leonis Sangu says the established alliance presents momentous chance to end child pregnancy and forced marriage as well as reduce gender inequality. CEFM Coordinator, Ms Beatrice Kingu, notes that the project presents to Rukwa region with a five year strategic plan to end child pregnancy and forced marriage and that stakeholders should use it well to attain the goal.