NMB Bank has launched mobile branch to bring close and serve Dumila residents in Kilosa District, Morogoro with banking services necessary for economic growth. The NMB Central Zone Manager, Mr Nsolo Mlozi, said at the event that the bank launched the mobile service as preparation for building big brick and mortar branch to serve the rising business, economic and other activities at Dumila area. "Dumila residents were forced to travel long distances in search for banking services. But the mobile branch will provide huge relief and also help them to avoid possible risks of travelling long distances carrying cash money," he said. He added, "Dumila is the fast growing town with its people engaging in various economic activities including agriculture, livestock keeping and mining, thus the availability of banking service will provide huge boost to the people." The launch of the NMB mobile branch went alongside with the donation of 50 tables and 50 desks to Kilosa Primary School and Lumuma Secondary School worth 10m/-. Mr Mlozi said the lender has been supporting the government efforts in improving social services to the community including health, education, financial education and in natural disasters. A resident from Dumila, Hawa Mohamed, said that they will no longer have to travel long distances of more than 50 kilometers to Turian, 60 kilometers to Kilosa or 20 kilometers to Mvomero in search for banking services. Speaking at the event, Kilosa District Commissioner Abdu Majid Mwanga said NMB has addressed the problem that faced Dumila residents to travel long distances looking for banking services. He challenged the residents to make effective use of the services offered by the NMB mobile branch by opening bank accounts and stop keeping money at home. "NMB has varieties of loan products including those on agriculture, livestock keeping, bodaboda and many others for which Dumila residents can grab the opportunity to boost individual, family and national economy," he said.