THREE foreign ambassadors have pledged to strengthen cooperation with Zanzibar in various sectors to enable the islands to achieve its development objectives. The envoys made the pledge on Wednesday when they met with Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Mwinyi on separate occasions at the Mnazi Mmoja State House in the islands. The diplomats are Saudi Arabian Ambassador Abdullah Bin Ali Alsheryan, the Indonesian Ambassador Tri Yogo Jatmiko and the Kenyan Ambassador Dan Kazungu. During his talks with Saudi Arabian Ambassador Alsheryan, President Mwinyi commended the country for its commitment to continue cooperating with Zanzibar in various sectors through Saudi Fund such as organising medical camps where specialists from the middle east country provide services to the people. “This system has improved service delivery,” Dr Mwinyi noted. Dr Mwinyi also informed the envoy about the Isle blue economy agenda calling upon investors from Saudi Arabia to exploit opportunities associated with the use of the ocean resources. Meanwhile, President Mwinyi has commended Kenyan government for continuing to strengthen historical ties and cooperation for the benefits of the people from both countries. He noted that Zanzibar has been cooperating with Kenya mainly in trade, culture and tourism. “We are happy with Kenya’s move to organise a meeting of ministers from Kenya and Tanzania to be held in Zanzibar on March 9, 2022 with the aim of discussing various issues including trade,” Dr Mwinyi said. In his talks with the Indonesian Ambassador to Tanzania Tri Yogo Jatmiko, President Mwinyi explained that “Indonesia remains a key stakeholder to Zanzibar in clove business and other crops.” President Mwinyi commended the country’s readiness to improve Zanzibar’s clove value by processing it and eventually securing raw materials for export, thus promoting Zanzibar as the centre of trade in the East African region. Dr Mwinyi further told Ambassador Jatmiko that “Zanzibar is happy to continue working with Indonesia in developing and strengthening the fisheries industry as well as seaweed production and processing for value addition and finding a reliable market to support farmers”. The ambassadors praised Dr Mwinyi for his initiatives for the Isles to achieve development goal, and also commended Zanzibaris for the visible love, solidarity, and unity which have built a great reputation beyond borders. In another development, the three envoys on separate occasions also met with Zanzibar First Vice-President Othman Masoud Othman. The VP called upon Zanzibaris to take advantage of the prevailing cooperation with the three countries. He pointed out that the cooperation between Zanzibar and Kenya is an opportunity to improve agriculture and tourism sectors for the benefit of the people in both countries. The VP held talks with Kenyan Ambassador Dan Kazungu at his office in Migombani Street, where the envoy officially bid farewell to him as he completed his term of office in Tanzania. He said Kenya has made strides in utilising the expertise and best technology for the production of agribusiness and tourism and that Tanzanians can use the opportunity to develop agricultural sub sectors to increase production of poultry products, fruits and vegetables to meet the needs of the domestic tourism market. Othman noted that, currently the production rate of the products by Zanzibar farmers is between 25 and 30 per cent of the total demand which he said is very low.