VICE-President Dr Philip Mpango has challenged Member States of the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) to fasttrack formationnn of joint commission for strengthening sustainable management, utilization and development of water resources. While urging the Member Countries to take the issue as their main agenda, Dr Mpango told the NBI secretariat to coordinate process of establishing the envisaged  Nile Basin Commission. Dr Mpango made the plea on Tuesday at an event to mark the 16th Regional Nile Day 2022 which was held at the Mlimani City Conference Centre in Dar es Salaam. "The Nile Basin Commission will be a key step towards strengthening our shared efforts in sustainable management, utilization and development of the Nile Basin water resources," said Dr Mpango. The VP expressed confidence that during the 17th Regional Nile Day scheduled for next, all member states will have ratified protocol for the establishment of the Nile Basin Commission and would invite him to witness the launching. According to him, water is the backbone of the socio-economic development in every country, calling for the need to increase investment in projects related to shared water resources. He maintained that investment in the water sector was critical; emphasizing that special attention should be placed on the Nile Basin to enable member states to realize Sustainable Development Goal Number 6 which emphasizes on access to clean water and sanitation. "The African Union through the Water Ministers Council is coordinating the agenda for investment in the water sector and has established the African Water Investment Programme whose target is to collect 30 billion US dollars for the implementation of water and environment projects in Africa. Let us all effectively participate in the initiative." He, however, indicated that there has been a growing number of people who live around the Nile Basin from 238 million people in 2018 to 278 million (2022) making up 10 percent of the entire African Population. That was a clear manifestation that the achievements recorded in the Nile Basin were for a whole continent, thus calling for increased cooperation in the management, development and sustainable utilization of water resources. For his part, Water Minister Jumaa Aweso called upon member states to employ knowledge and resources to enable a win-win mode in the utilization of the Nile Basin water resources. He quoted President Samia Suluhu Hassan who once said:"If you want to go fast go alone but if you want to go far go with others," and recalled another saying from the late founding Father of the Nation Mwalimu Julius who had also said "Without unity there is no future for the Nile". "A strengthened Nile Basin refers to a strengthened Africa, water has no boundaries, it is therefore vital for all of us to strengthen our existing cooperation," noted Mr Aweso. Nile Basin Initiative Executive Director, Eng Sylvester Matemu, disclosed that since the establishment of NBI, it has promoted the identification and preparation of 174 investment projects worth more than 6.5 million US dollars out of which the projects worth over 1.3 million US dollars are at various stages of implementation. He, however, noted that power transmission and interconnection lines stretching over 1000km have been opened in improving accessibility in the region. On the other hand, flood preparedness and early warning systems have been established and many others are in the pipeline. "An example of such projects implemented in Tanzania include the 80 megawatts Regional Rusumo Hydroelectric Power Project aimed to increase the supply of electricity to the national grids of Rwanda, Tanzania and Burundi with each country benefiting 26 megawatts current at 80 percent of implementation," stated the ED. He revealed that NBI was facing challenges including some member states not meeting their financial obligations, something which was hampering its operations, applauding Tanzania for setting a good example by settling all its financial obligations. Meanwhile, Dr Mpango called upon NBI to adopt Kiswahili as the third official language after English and French. "I am confident that in the next similar gathering in 2023, the Secretariat of NBI will have agreed for Kiswahili as the third language for communication," stressed Dr Mpango. Such follows after the Minister of Water had earlier extended the same plea for Kiswahili to be adopted as the language for communication by NBI.