FARMERS in Tanzania were able to sell 66.3 million US dollars (about 153bn/-) worth of produce in structured markets between 2017 and 2021. The farmers managed to reach that mark with combined support from the government, private sector and development partners, according to a new book that was launched over the weekend in Dodoma. The book, titled How Integration Enhances the Competitiveness of Agribusinesses and Smallholder Farming Systems: The Tanzania Case Study, showcases how different organisations, businesses and government agencies worked together in the approach known as the Consortia Model supporting farmers in Southern Highlands, Western Highlands and Northern Highlands of the country. This support included providing funding, strategic support, access to market and financing and linkages to inputs and output markets. Speaking when she launched the book, Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) Vice- President Dr Agnes Konde said: “Over the years, we have learnt that supporting agricultural systems in isolation does not guarantee scale and sustainability.
“This Consortia Model evolved as we worked with the government, private sector and development partners, building synergies to unlock more value and drive farmers' adoption of technologies to catalyse sustainable agribusiness relationships and delivery models,” she said. AGRA has invested 8.7 million US dollars (about 20bn/-) to support consortia working in the four regions. The initiative reached 720,819 farmers, who not only accessed structured markets but also yielded 12 per cent more rice and fetched 47 per cent higher factory gate prices for their higher quality maize. In addition to this, beans export sales increased from 239,130 US dollars (about 553m/-) to 19.5 million US dollars (about 45bn/-); with 13.3 million US dollars (about 30.8bn/-) worth of fertiliser sold to participating farmers; and 16 million US dollars (about 37bn/-) worth of seed produced and sold by seed companies and agro-dealers. “This book provides an opportunity for all the stakeholders to learn from one another and to provide feedback and accountability on the performance of agricultural investments,” said Education Minister Prof Adolf Mkenda, who forwarded the book while holding the agriculture docket. AGRA has been supporting Tanzania’s agriculture sector since 2006 to develop crop varieties, train scientists and research infrastructure, strengthen extension services, provide market, and finance linkages, supporting agro-dealers and policy reforms. Over the last four years, the integrated approach has proved that synergies between agricultural systems create more value, leading to the adoption of technologies at scale, while creating sustainable agribusiness relationships, delivery models, and practices. The book was produced with support from the government of Tanzania through the Ministry of Agriculture, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Mastercard Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, IFAD, UK Aid and USAID. Meanwhile, former President Jakaya Kikwete’s week-long tour of agriculture projects supported by AGRA and partners has drawn to a close. Kikwete covered over 3,000 kilometres on the road, traversing seven out of 25 regions of mainland Tanzania, spread across the Southern, Western and Central parts of the country. Together with the Deputy Minister for Agriculture Anthony Mavunde and a cross-section of the public, private sector and civil society actors, the former president witnessed first-hand agricultural enterprises that are changing the faces of the rural areas and regional townships. “Tanzania, with smallholder farmers at the centre, can transcend gains made in agriculture and agro-industrialisation into a formidable individual and national development vehicle that will translate into a fast-developing and prosperous nation for the majority of citizens,” Kikwete noted.