CONSTRUCTION works for the Central Zone Blood Centre (CZBC) at Itenga area in Dodoma is heading towards final stages. Upon its completion, the key health facility will serve the three regions of Iringa, Singida and Dodoma and projected to help reduce a longstanding challenge of shortage of safe blood to cater for the patients in relevant needs within central zone corridor. The timely project is being implemented by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) through funds from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) at a tune of 1.5bn/-. The Dodoma regional blood transfusion centre (BTC) has been experiencing acute shortage of safe blood due to sharp increase in human population, propelled by relocation of the government’s administration headquarters into the region. “For many years now we have been facing varied challenges that unsettled us to meet the needed blood collection targets, “ Head of Dodoma Regional Blood Ttransfusion Centre, Dr. Leah Kitundya, said. She said that the region was demanding more than 1,500 bottles of safe blood per month, but the centre was often used to manage collecting only between 750 and 850 bottles. Dr Kitundya expressed gratitude that the envisaged new zonal blood centre will enable them dispensing the life- serving services more professional, ever before. “If all goes well, we’ll officially start to use the new facility from April this year,” she informed. She detailed that the zonal centre will be equipped with modern machines, including the ELISA machine, not only to fast-tract services delivery, but also monitoring for collection of safe blood. ELISA machine, or EIA, is a high- technologic for antibody testing and is usually done on a blood sample. In the test, a person’s serum is allowed to react with virus protein that have been produced in laboratory. If the person has been infected with HIV, the antibodies in the serum will bind to the HIV proteins, and the extent of binding can be measured. Negative EIA results usually available in a day or so. “Basically, we’re likely heading towards impressive development because the public here has at least started to understand the important of donating blood. Formerly many people used to be scared to donate blood due to different negative notions,” she expressed. Dr Kitundya informed that the centre was currently continuing with blood collection campaign in different secondary schools as well as ministries, public and private institutions, saying the response was very positive. However, in similar efforts to curtail a challenge of shortage of safe blood within the fast grown region, the Dodoma- based Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) has installed a 1bn/- worth blood bank and transfusion center. Apart from assisting patients in needs, the modern faculty also meant to assist the state-owned hospital to professionally perform bone marrow transplant services as well as dispensing to patients with sickle cell challenges. During an interview, the hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonse Chandika expressed that the centre plays a significant role in help reducing a spate of acute deficit of availability of safe blood within the region. Despite being the capital city, and with increased human population, Dodoma region has been experiencing tall shortage of safe bloods to transfuse patients in relevant needs, due to several handicaps.