THE Bank of Tanzania is following up reports of continued use of 200/- coins as tokens in gambling slot machines, which leads to increased defaced coins in circulation. The BoT Manager of Currency, Ilulu Said Ilulu said in Mbeya City recently that they had issued a directive to the Gaming Board of Tanzania to make sure the coins are not used as tokens in slot machines but they have received reports that the problem still continues. “Our coins should be used for payments only, not as tokens in slotting machines. The machines deface the coins,” he said in a presentation at a BoT seminar for journalists. There is public concern over the presence of so many defaced 200/- coins in circulation and BoT investigation linked the damage to the coins to their improper use as tokens in gambling slot machines. Use of counterfeit, unapproved chips or tokens or coins for devices in slot machines is unlawful in Tanzania according to the Gaming Act of 2003. The Central Bank implements a clean money policy, where it ensures only clean and fit banknotes and coins are kept in circulation in order to promote integrity and public confidence, he said. Implementation of the policy entails setting up a system of withdrawing unfit banknotes and defaced coins from circulation and replacing them with clean currencies. The BoT officer said the reports they have, have shown that the problem of improper use of 200/- coins as tokens persists as the coins which have been damaged do not return to the bank to be withdrawn from the circulation unlike 50/-, 100/- and 500/- coins. BoT are investigating its continued improper use as tokens and will take legal measures against dishonest operators who defy directives on the use of the currency, he said. “The problem still continues. When the 200/- coins are issued they are not returned. Defaced 200/- coins don’t return to be withdrawn,” he said. Mr Ilulu said operators who were using the coins as tokens were once arraigned in Morogoro where over 90m/- worth of defaced 200/- coins were confiscated. Other operators were arraigned in Mwanza and they lost about 134m/- worth of defaced coins, he said. He said they asked the Gaming Board to take up measures to stop the illegal use of the coins in slot machines. “We asked the gaming Board to take up measures to stop this...We served them a reminder note. They haven’t responded yet,” he said.