THE International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) on Saturday launched SUSTAIN Pro initiative to address livelihood inequality, ecosystem degradation and agricultural challenges in key growth corridors. The ten-year initiative will be implemented in the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor (SAGCOT) of Tanzania and the Beira Agricultural Growth Corridor in Mozambique. In Tanzania, the programme will be carried out in the Kilombero and Ihemi clusters with the SAGCOT Centre as strategic partner. SUSTAIN Pro builds on the achievements of SUSTAIN Phase I, implemented in both countries from 2014 to 2019. Speaking during the event, Permanent Secretary in Vice President’s Office Marry Maganga called for the increased commitment to the food system for resilient agriculture and landscape. The PS, who was represented by the VPO’s Director for Environment Dr Andrew Komba, said the initiative will also contribute to the implementation of the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), Agricultural Sector Development Programme Phase II (ASDP II) and related operational frameworks. "SUSTAIN Pro focuses on scaling solutions for sustainable agricultural production; restoring land health and investing in sustainable and inclusive value chains to drive systemic change," she said. According to her, agriculture was not only negatively impacted by climate change, but is in itself one of the major contributors of greenhouse gas emissions nationally and globally. “Sustainable food systems present us with the opportunity to transform agriculture into a solution for addressing challenges posed by climate change through adaptation and mitigation actions,” she noted. For his part, IUCN Coordinator for Eastern and Southern Africa Mr Charles Oluchina said the program is being founded by  the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad) with the Tanzania component having an initial budget of Norwegian Krone 21.5 Million (2.5million USD). He noted that, in a move to deliver on sustainable food systems, they will need to build evidence, engage stakeholders, design innovative solutions and develop mechanisms for enabling and incentivising sustainable food pathways. “The project will benefit smallholder farmers, agribusinesses, Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises and their associations, large agribusiness companies, national industry associations, Growth Corridor Secretariats and financial investors,” he explained. Earlier, Chief Executive of SAGCOT, Geofrey Kirenga, remarked that the programme will ease the transformation of agriculture and enhance food security. “Access to sufficient, safe and healthy food is essential prerequisite for human well-being and economic development which is reason Norad has invested in sustainable food production and transforming food systems," said Mr Kirenga Ms Ingvild Langhus, a Senior Adviser, Section for Food at Norad’s Department for Climate and Environment said by partnering with IUCN on SUSTAIN Pro, they are expecting to scale up successful and climate resilient agricultural practices.