IT is not every other day that you get good news from TANESCO, the Corporation supplying us with electricity. However, according to a news item titled: “TANESCO assures reliable electricity services after infrastructure repair” (Custodian 12 February, p. 3), the Corporation assured the general public that there were good times ahead, as the renovation of plant and infrastructure to increase efficiency, had been completed. Earlier on, according to the writer: “The company alerted the country on hard times ahead as ‘the country’ was heading to ‘power’ blamed on low water volumes ‘in Declining’ water levels which affected hydroelectric stations of Kihansi, Kidatu as well as Pangani”. The sentence above needs rewriting to make it intelligible and to avoid using the phrase: “the country” twice, in a short sentence. Here is my version: “The company had alerted the public on the hard times ahead, as ‘the country’ was heading towards ‘power interruptions’, blamed on low water volumes ‘and declining’ water levels which affected hydroelectric ‘power’ stations of Kihansi, Kidatu as well as Pangani”. Thank you TANESCO for the good news. On the same page 3, is a submission, quoting deliberations going on in the National Assembly in Dodoma. It is titled: “Government ‘argued’ to fast track reforms to stimulate investment”. MPs want the government to speed up the preparation of the Business Facilitation Act to buoy economic development. They must have argued about this issue, but to say, subsequently, that the Government has been “argued” to do something fast, does not make sense. Chances are that, by “Government ‘argued’”, the writer had “Government ‘urged’”, in mind. In that case, our title should read as follows: “Government urged to fasttrack reforms to stimulate investment”. Something else was brought to the attention of the government by the MPs: “Traders and investors are still decrying the multiple taxes and levies which are ‘posed to’ them by several regulatory bodies and institutions”. MPs could pose a question to, say, the Prime Minister. To “pose taxes and levies to traders and investors”, does not quite make sense. The writer should have considered using the verb “impose”, instead of “pose”. Thus, if we rewrite the sentence, it will read as follows: “Traders and investors are still decrying the multiple taxes and levies which are ‘imposed on’ them, by several regulatory bodies and institutions”. Still, on the same page 3 of the Custodian, is this news item titled: “Government signs 86 contracts worth 309.9bn/= for water projects”. At the signing ceremony, the Minister for Water is quoted as having had tough words for the contractors and supervisors: “He also urged for close cooperation between the contractors, leaders and the public ‘at’ the project areas, calling on regional managers to closely monitor the projects, failure to produce ‘decent shoddy’ work will result in the termination of their contract”. Now, “decent work” cannot at the same time be “shoddy work”, considering that shoddy work or shoddy services or products means that they are of very low standards. I would therefore leave out “shoddy” from the sentence and have the sentence read in part: “failure to produce decent (or quality) work will result in the termination of their contracts”. If the writer wanted “shoddy” to appear in the sentence, then both the words “failure” and “decent”, have to go: “He called on regional managers to closely monitor the projects, since producing shoddy work will result in the termination of their contracts”. The Minister was given assurances from the executing agency: “The Rural Water and Sanitation Agency is doing everything possible to ensure the projects are completed on time ‘at’ the expected standards”. “At the expected standards?” No. “To the expected standards”. It is important to ensure that the projects are completed to the expected standards”. Wishing you a lovely weekend! lusuggakironde@gmail.com