MINISTER of State in President’s Office (Public Service and Good Governance), Ms Jenista Mhagama, has reminded public servants of their obligation to work diligently to support President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Ms Mhagama made the call recently while officiating at the workers’ council of the President’s Office (Public Service Commission). “It is our obligation to support President Samia by working hard professionally and with high degree of ethics by providing better services to the citizens that we are serving. Reporting at work on time and undertaking our responsibilities while ensuring that we meet the targets set are achieved is very important. Do not lower the standards of executing your work and instead go to higher levels,” she noted. The minister pointed out the importance of public servants and every Tanzanian to be responsible so that all get their rights.
Speaking about the Public Service Commission, Ms Mhagama said the entity has been mandated to make transformation in the public service and ensure that services are managed and dispensed in accordance with the law, regulations, procedures, guidelines and lawful directives of the government. “This Commission is an entity that has been bestowed with serious and sensitive responsibilities on managing human resources in the public service. “You ought to work hard and be guided with nationalism for the interests of Tanzanians, while at the same time you strive against corruption and any other unethical conduct that is against the ethics of public service,” she told the employees. She further reminded them that safeguarding human resources is a priority since it can be built in a long period but destroyed in just a single day and thus causing a loss to the government and the nation by losing working force. “As such, the responsibility bestowed on the Commission to preserve human resources in public service is paramount and you should ensure it is sustained and results in productivity in execution of its duties,” Ms Mhagama stressed. In regards to the responsibility of the Commission to hear and solve appeals and complaints filed by public servants, Ms Mhagama reminded the members that the institution holds the rights and life of the workers since it is the one that issues verdicts on the appeals and complaints.
“You should also endeavor to dispense justice for those who deserve their rights, but for those sabotaging the government for engaging in embezzlement within public service deal with them effectively,” she urged. At the same occasion, the Secretary of the Public Service Commission, Mr Mathew Kirama, assured the minister that no public servant will be denied of their rights, but there same will not be granted to those who do not deserve it.