THE government has welcomed Ngorongoro residents’ decision and commitment to continue protecting and conserve the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) as far as tourism is concerned. In a statement availed to the media by his office late yesterday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the government had taken note of the residents’ willingness to cooperate with the government in conserving the area, which has global importance for biodiversity conservation. “The government is ready to cooperate with Ngorongoro residents, much as they have clearly demonstrated the willingness to support the efforts of conserving the area,” the Premier said in the statement. Mr Majaliwa, who held behind closed door meeting with leaders of Ngorongoro division at the former Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority(NCAA) headquarters, however appealed to the leaders to let the government do some thorough review of the disputed area and eventually come up with a better plan that seeks to develop the area. The PM acknowledged the receipt of a raft of challenges forwarded to him by Naiseko Ward Councillor James Naiseko for action, further urging the residents to continue trusting and counting on the government in addressing their grievances. “If anything, you should continue believing in us as our ultimate goal is pegged on striking the right balance between conservation and people’s livelihoods,” explained the Prime Minister The Premier was of the opinion that a great deal of locals in the area were in agreement with the government on seeing tourism and conservation thriving in the area, urgithem to adhere to the core principles of the two. Mr Majaliwa called for calm as the government deliberated on the issue. He however challenged the Ngorongoro residents to take note and reflect on the ever-increasing number of people and livestock within the NCA. For the second time running, the Premier assured the residents that the government continues to treasure and value the opinions of Non-Government Organisations which advocate for the rights of pastoral communities co-existing with wild animals in the area. “We will continue coordinating their views and opinions with the public and national interest in mind,” he said. The Premier informed the Ngorongoro residents that President Samia Suluhu Hassan wished to see their views getting accommodated and where necessary, heeding to government advice and directives. A series of such meetings in Ngorongoro District was per the President’s directive, according to the Prime Minister. Also present during the locked meeting were ministers and permanent secretaries whose dockets are directly linked with conservation, livestock, water and land. The meeting also saw the residents represented by area MP Emmanuel Shangai, Maasai Chief Leaders popularly referred to as Laigwanans, village and division chairpersons and the Ngorongoro Pastoral Council (NPC). The NCA spans vast expanses of highland plains, savanna, savanna woodlands and forests. Established in 1959 as a multiple land use area, with wildlife coexisting with semi-nomadic Maasai pastoralists practicing traditional livestock grazing, the area includes the spectacular Ngorongoro Crater, the world’s largest caldera. It was in 2010 inscribed as a cultural property on the World Heritage List by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage Committee.