AFTER a successful mission in their CAF Confederation Cup’s opener, Simba have shifted attention to Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they host Ruvu Shooting today. The two teams meet at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the city battling for a slot into the federation’s quarterfinals, hence it is a make or break encounter between them. For Simba, they will approach the game seriously as they want to achieve their target to retain the ASFC title. To reach this stage, the Msimbazi Street Reds mercilessly punished Dar City with a 6-0 win, as such; all eyes will be on how they will perform in today's game whose winners progress into the last eight of the tournament. Last season, Simba clinched the silverware directly from the sight of their traditional rivals Young Africans courtesy of their 1-0 victory. However, a convincing 3-1 triumph they stamped in the CAF Confederation Cup against ASEC Mimosas gives Simba an upper hand to emerge victors bearing in mind that they usually do well in big matches of this nature. When the two teams met in the league match this season at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza, Simba deservedly picked all the three points with a 3-1 win hence they will again be in a combat mood to replicate the same format. On the other hand, Ruvu Shooting are not a side to be taken for granted as they too have a competitive squad capable of winning matches, a situation that compels Simba not to underrate them. Their Information Officer Masau Bwire has been firing warning shots at Simba saying they should be ready to suffer a setback from his side when they meet later today. "To say the truth, we have been training hard and the boys are looking forward to winning this game. We know that we are facing strong opponents but our ambition is to make it into the next stage of the competition," he said. However, Ruvu Shooting will approach the game in a sombre mood following the death of their centerback Ally Sonso who passed away recently in Dar es Salaam. This will be the first match for them to play without the hard working defender as such; the only way they can celebrate his life well is by producing a victory over the Reds.