Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) with support of GIZ Business Scout for Development, a German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) has funded a programme for capacity building to medium and small entrepreneurs’ metal manufacturing in the country. TCCIA Acting Executive Director, Mr Nebart Mwapwele said the training programme aims to curb the shortage of professionals in the metal industry with poor technology. He said the metal manufacturing industry employs a large number of people and it contributes to national development. “We have partnered with various stakeholders to continue with assessment on the needs of the training curriculum for entrepreneurs in the metal industry to meet the domestic and foreign markets,” he said. Mr Mwapwele made the remarks during the workshop held in Dar es Salaam yesterday and involves Government Technical Regulatory Institution and Technical Colleges that offer various skills including metal fabrication and MSMEs from various places of Dar es Salaam. According to him, the targeted entrepreneurs are both informal and formal metal manufacturing. He mentioned some of the stakeholders involved in this programme including the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE), Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) and Small Industries Development Organization (SIDO). Mr Mwapwele added that they need to equip entrepreneurs in the metal manufacturing industry that they can provide quality and standardized products and services to various projects being implemented in the country. He mentioned Dodoma, Geita, Shinyanga, Mara and Mtwara and Dar es Salaam as a pilot region whereby the programme will run for one year. The Head of Department, Mechanical Engineering, Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology, Eng Ramadhani Kivugo said the programme aims to capacity building for metal traders and add value to metalbased materials. He said the project will also help to raise incomes for entrepreneurs and boost the economy in the country. TCCIA Shinyanga Executive Officer, Ms Marcelina Saulo has asked GIZ to assist the entrepreneurs with modern equipment on the metal fabrication to improve their products and international standards and acquire foreign markets such as Rwanda, Burundi and DRC.