INDIA President Shri Ram Nath Kovind has acknowledged the good relations between Tanzania and his country, stressing that they will further uphold the ties between the two nations. The President expressed his appreciation at the occasion to receive letters of credentials from the new Tanzanian High Commissioner to India Ambassador Anisa Mbega. High Commissioner Mbega presented her letters of credence to President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan State House in New Delhi on Wednesday. The Indian President assured the envoy that India is also committed to ensure that she gets all the necessary cooperation so that she effectively execute her roles for the benefit of both sides. Immediately after submitting her credentials, High Commissioner Mbega held talks with President Kovind during which she extended appreciation to the government of India for extending various support to Tanzania, specifically in offering concessional loans to water sector as well as medical equipment and drug supplies. She, equally, identified short and long term training opportunities which have long been provided to Tanzanian citizens. During the occasion, High Commissioner Mbeya delivered greetings from President Samia Suluhu Hassan to her counterpart President Kovind, who extended appreciation for the good gesture. The diplomat expressed the commitment of Tanzania to continue fostering the existing good relations in various areas including trade, investment, tourism and opening up new areas of cooperation. End of last month, the India High Commissioner to Tanzania Binaya Pradhan disclosed that Tanzania bilateral trade with India reached 2.37 billion US dollars (about 6tri/) in the year 2020/2021, noting that the country was the largest destination for Tanzania exports and second largest bilateral trade partner. The High Commissioner commended the leadership of President Samia for strengthening economic cooperation between India and Tanzania. He said there is great scope of Indian investment in several sectors in Tanzania including in ports, infrastructure, oil, gas, health, education and agriculture. India is also among the top five investment sources in Tanzania with Indian investments in Tanzania reaching 3.65 billion US dollars (over 8tri/-). The Indian diplomat said on January 21st this year, the first consignment of avocados from Tanzania left for India, adding a new chapter in agricultural cooperation. Expounding further, he said India has completed and implemented 500 million US dollars (about 1.1tri/-) development projects in water supply with other projects valued at 500 million US dollars (about 1.1tri/- being in pipeline. Recognising the potential of Information Communication Technology (ICT) in the development of Tanzania, India has set up two ICT centres at Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology and Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology in Arusha.