THE Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and five African liberation parties that co-founded the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School have unanimously vowed to continue supporting the newly launched learning institution to nurture talents, which enhance good governance and achieve development for their countries and people. The five parties include the African National Congress (ANC) of South Africa, the Mozambique Liberation Front Party (FRELIMO), the People’s Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), South-West Africa People’s Organization (SWAPO) party of Namibia and the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF). They took the stance yesterday in Kibaha, Coast Region, at a ceremony to launch the institution, where President Samia Suluhu Hassan graced the event. Delivering a speech virtually on behalf of CPC General Secretary, Xi Jinping (pictured), Minister of the International Department of the CPC Central Committee, Mr Song Tao, said the inaugura-ion of the school clearly demonstrates the profound cooperation which exists between the countries. “The development of party cadres is deemed important, in a turbulent world with mounting risks, it is more imperative and important to cultivate talents. “In these circumstances, we take the launch of the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School as a new starting point for very deeper exchanges and sharing of experience for the former liberation movements in various aspects for more strengthened practical cooperation at a higher level,” said President Xi. He expressed his government’s commitment to continue providing support within their capacities to the teaching and operation of the school. “The CPC is willing to take the inauguration of the Julius Nyerere leadership school as an opportunity to strengthen exchange of state governance experience with parties in Africa, support each other in pursuing development paths that suit their own national conditions, deepen pragmatic cooperation across the board, promote the building of a high-level community with a shared future between China and Africa, and contribute more to the building of a better world,” he maintained. SWAPO Secretary General, Ms Sophia Shaningwa, noted that the inauguration witnessed continued cementing of the glorious history of the former liberation movement of Southern Africa, a history of struggle, libelous and triumph. “In deed today our six sister parties are ensuring that the legacy of the liberation struggle will not only be preserved, but through this party school of Excellence, we will be able to inculcate within our youth the fundamentals and principles of Pan-Africanism revolution in the history of African independence. “It will be a place to continue fostering the cooperation which has existed with all the countries, which are fighting for their liberation struggles. She observed that the leadership ideology school is where their ideologies will be impacted on the new generations of leaders, political parties and governments as it comes at an important time of the history, when the information age is bombarded with ideologies, fake information and counter revolutionary forces which are enemies of progress. The ZANU-PF disclosed that the school is a strategic hub for rethinking in the African continent, stating that the leadership school comes at an opportune time, when Africa needs in-depth research knowledge systems on various socio-economic and political aspects. According to him, the school will be able to embark on intellectual exploration of the cultures in the face of western globalization, and more research on how Pan-Africanism can be exploited for the enrichment of the continent in economic growth. “To us the school invites Africans’ call of shifting the geography of knowledge from the colonialist’s motivated angles, towards the total economic and political liberation of Africa. “I extend appreciation to all the former Heads of State and Liberation Movement for making the dream to become a reality,” stated the Representative. Equally, the ANC party indicated that the contribution of China in putting up the leadership school affirms valuable lessons of working the course with determination, citing that China’s success has come a long way due to hard work.