THE African Tourism Board (ATB) has commended East African Community (EAC) Partner States for its zeal of making the bloc a single tourism destination. Speaking at a hybrid meeting dubbed EAC-Africa Exchange on Tourism Recovery here on Tuesday, ATB’s Executive Chairman Cuthbert Ncube singled out praise on the community for the initiative and that of the EAC passport saying it was geared towards creating seamless travel within the region. Mr Ncube was of the opinion that it was prudent to charge Africans as a way of showing appreciation to one another in order to creating socio-economic sustainability. “These efforts that have been initiated, spearheaded by the EAC for an introduction of the single tourism visa is a way to boost the tourism sector in the region and the introduction of East Africa passport as a travel document,” opined the continental tourism expert. Such a move, according to Mr Ncube will simplify accessibility and would ultimately create convenience to the regional travelers, sharing special incentives afforded to the EAC on discounted rates. The expert further called other Regional Economic Communities (RECs) on the continent to follow suit. “This is the time for African blocks to take charge and regroup in a continental spirit to say, how do we start appreciating ourselves as individuals, how do we start appreciating ourselves as member states, how do we start to appreciate each other within the context of inclusive approach towards Africa’s emancipation on economic growth and economic sustainability”, explained Mr Ncube during the virtual meeting. He equally challenged continental tourism stakeholders to start looking into what he described as “robust policies” that would bring about self-reliance within the continent thereby accelerating tourism potential development drive. The ATB official also assured tourism practitioners of the board’s support, urging them not to relent in their drive that would yield through domestic tourism value chain in Africa. The EAC envisions promoting and marketing the Community as a Single Tourist Destination while conserving and ensuring sustainable utilization of wildlife and other tourist sites. Tourism remains one of the most significant sectors in all the economies of the EAC region. The sector contributes an average of about 17 per cent to export earnings and its contribution to GDP is quite substantial averaging at around 10 per cent. It generates further generates about seven per cent of employment in the region. The sector has important linkages with other sectors of the economy including agriculture, manufacturing, insurance, and finance among others.