THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has sent a powerful delegation to Zambia in strategic efforts to promote services offered in all their ports in the country. The delegation was joined by Tanzanian Ambassador to Zambia, Hassan Simba Yahaya, who is representing the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works and Transport, Amb Aisha Amour at a special conference which was officially opened yesterday by Zambia’s Minister for Transport and Logistics, Frank Tayali. It brought together a number of transport stakeholders, who transport cargo from Zambia to other parts of the globe. During the conference, Amb Yahaya assured participants that under President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s government, the TPA has made major strides in improving services offered at all their ports, which includes major investment in purchase of modern equipment and machinery which has increased the quality of service. He said that improvement in services at all major ports in the country is meant to benefit Tanzania and land linked countries, which depend on the country’s ports, including Zambia. Zambia is one of the transit markets served by the Port of Dar es Salaam. The market is served by the Dar es Salaam corridor, which is a multi-modal corridor with road and TAZARA railway. The corridor stretches out from the Port of Dar es Salaam to the Tunduma/Nakonde Border. On her part, TPA Marketing Manager, Ms Lydia Mallya said that the Port of Dar es Salaam is the main cargo gateway not only to Tanzanian hinterland and great lakes region, but also for land linked neighbours in east and central Africa such as Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Malawi, Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia. She said the port registered a performance of 17.8 million tonnes in 2021. She told delegates at the conference that with the capacity of handling 600,000 vehicles annually, the new 320-meter-long berth at the Dar es Salaam port recently broke both its own capacity handled record and that of all other Eastern and Southern African ports (excluding South Africa) by welcoming cargo ship MOL Tranquil Ace to discharge 3743 cars on the new roll-on/roll- off berth. “Given the rise in maritime trade and the ever-increasing market demands, TPA is set to cope with this fast-growing trend through creation of capacity ahead of demand through projects geared towards improving capacity and efficiency at the port,” she said. She said one of the projects, the Dar es Salaam Marine Gateway Project (DMGP) is valued at 336.4bn/- and represents the first large –scale modernisation of the port in its history. She said the project is well under way, with initial works now virtually complete under the supervision and management of the TPA, which upon completion the Dar port will have a capacity of handling 28 million tonnes per annum. She concluded that Tanzanian ports will continue to play an important role in linking the regional expansive hinterland to the international markets, with initiatives to improve cargo handling at the Dar Port and other TPA ports which will fast track Tanzania’s quest for industrialisation and support the regional quest to attain fast social economic development.