STATE run utility--Tanzania National Electric Supply Company (Tanesco) announced  yesterday  that  power availability  in the country has return to normal  after  completion of  upgrading its gas-powered  stations   at  Ubungo III and Kinyerezi I  in Dar es Salaam. The completion of the tasks is a relief to Tanesco customers who have experienced almost 10 days of power interruption in most parts of the country. Tanesco’s spokesperson, Mr Martin Mwembene, told reporters in Dar es Salaam that the country now has self-sufficient gas to generate the needed electricity. “We have officially completed the 10 days’ maintenance work within the fixed time. The maintenance were being carried out at Songosongo under the Pan African Energy Tanzania Limited, aimed at increasing the capacity to supply enough gas,” Tanesco spokesperson said Elaborating, Mr Mwambene said the completed maintenance is a one of the strategies they set during last year’s draught leading them to undertake several measures to increase capacity at the Kinyerezi I plant from 150 megawatt to 350 megawatt and to revive the Ubungo III plant expected to generate 112 megawatts of which so far 60 megawatts have already been installed. “Gas demand became a very key factor, leading our Pan African Energy together with the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to make repairs so as to improve gas capacity due to increased demand,” he added. Meanwhile he said that Tanesco also took the 10 days maintenance as an opportunity to renovate their infrastructure that includes the replacement of dilapidated poles, removing wood poles and installing concrete ones, replacing worn wires and various transformers improvements and increasing power capacity. "For a very long time we have been making improvements to our infrastructure and in order to make these repairs we must turn off the electricity, so Tanesco took advantage of this power outage to make these repairs in various areas,” Mr Mwambene said On   January 28 this year Tanesco said that it was upgrading its power production stations to boost electricity generation in the country, the work that was to be implemented for 10 days from February 1 to February 10 this year. It said that the maintenance could cause power interruption in various parts of the country. The extension of Kinyerezi I is progressing well, noting that the first 70 megawatts that will be produced would be added to the national grid in April this year. Tanesco Managing Director, Mr Maharage Chande said in the past that until August last year the entire work will have been completed that would make Kinyerezi I, which currently generates 150 megawatts, to have the capacity to produce 335 megawatts. According to Mr Chande, maintenance at Kinyerezi I and Ubungo III has resulted in an increase in gas consumption, necessitating the improvement of the infrastructure to meet that demand. Tanesco reported last year that electricity generation at key dams had declined by 344 megawatts (21 per cent of the total) due to lower water levels caused by lack of rainfall hence lower river inflow. Drought across the country is endangering electricity generation in hydropower plants, according to a Tanesco media advisory, with the decrease in water in the dams affecting electricity generation at the Kihansi, Kidatu and Pangani power stations. As a result, the firm was seeking to increase natural gas power generation by speeding up the maintenance of some of its units, notably Ubungo I, Kinyerezi I and Ubungo III. It also stated that it was looking forward to the inauguration of the 36MW plant at Nyakato power station that would add to the 358MW of the national grid's available power. Routine data on electricity generation puts the country's capacity at 1,605 MW, where gas contribution tops by 900MW, hydropower 508 MW and renewable sources around 58MW of input, but certain projections affirm that by 2023, out of 550MW of new power input generated, private sector sources will account for 400MW and the public sector 150MW, with the parastatal expecting 600MW new input by 2025.