SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) agribusiness programme has guaranteed farmers reliable market and become a game changer in transforming their living standards. The SBL Corporate Relations Director John Wanyancha said recently that the SBL Agribusiness project assists farmers in various parts of the country to grow maize, sorghum and barley, allowing the company to increase the amount of locally sourced raw materials it uses in its three brewing plants of Dar es Salaam, Moshi and Mwanza. “Over the last five years, the project has focused on empowering local farmers to produce high-quality cereals, allowing the brewer to acquire the raw materials needed for beer production while also boosting the farmers’ economic well-being,” he said. One of the beneficiaries of SBL agribusiness empowerment project, Martha Kimaro, farmer from West Kilimanjaro in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region, started with one acre and now cultivates 20 acres of barley. “We get free seeds, extension services and most importantly a reliable market for our crops,” she said. “My life has changed since then as a result of barley. I am grateful to SBL for their assistance,” Ms Kimaro has managed to build a modern home, open a wholesale shop, and can easily pay her children’s school fees. Mwinyi Makame, a barley farmer from Basuto in Hanang District, Manyara Region said he had benefited from SBL’s agri-business programme because the company has consistently supplied him with fertilizer, seedlings, and insecticides. Mr Makame who joined the SBL empowerment project with only 50 acres five years ago now owns more than 300 acres. “In contrast to previous years now I have been able to harvest high yields as a result of this SBL assistance.” Mr Bora Msaki is another success story who enrolled in SBL’s agribusiness programme five years ago starting with 50 acres and has expanded to over 200 acres of barley. “When I joined SBL’s support project, my life changed significantly,” he said. Mr Msaki said he can now keep increasing his production and is happy to own three combine harvesters, five tractors, and “one big, modern” planter worth more than 70m/-.