ALL the best Tanzanian envoys in CAF Confederation Cup, Simba as they take on USGN of Niger this weekend and hopefully Simba will make it as they did to ASEC Mimosas a week earlier. Simba who are competing in the CAF Confederation Cup (CAF CC) group stage are also the only envoys for the entire East African Community (EAC) bloc. This is something which makes Tanzanians proud as they know that their national colours are in safe hands and being flown very high- a status that many countries have missed as their clubs failed to qualify for this stage of the CAF Interclub competition. As such; it was pleasing to see that the Msimbazi Street Reds began their group stage campaign on a front pedal after outclassing ASEC Mimosas from Ivory Coast 3-1 in a thrilling encounter at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. The vibe on the day from 35,000 fans, who were permitted to witness the encounter by CAF were ‘crazy’ as they tirelessly pushed for their team to generate maximum points. Indeed, it was a deserved statement that Simba gave to people who were having doubts concerning the team’s performance in the CAF Confederation Cup games as in their recently played NBC Premier League matches, they were getting slim and difficulty wins. Putting that in mind, there is a big hope that the envoys will carry on with their sparkling work- rate in all their coming CAF matches to achieve and even surpass their set target of reaching into the semifinals. Many people got surprised when Simba Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Barbara Gonzalez declared that their objective this season in the Confederation Cup is to step into the semifinals as they believed that the Reds have what it takes to go all the way into the finals. Surely, if they continue with their status of ensuring they grab maximum points in all their home matches and aiming to get at least one point from away venues, seeing them marching further into the contest will be as easy as drinking water under a scorching sun. However, it should always be remembered that good records being stamped by the Msimbazi street giants are not for them alone but rather the whole country do benefit a lot hence, coordinated efforts are needed to push Simba far ahead in the CAF Confederation Cup. But, on the other side, answers must be provided to questions like why other representatives always ‘drop it like is hot’ when an opportunity to deploy four teams in the Interclub games comes. This syndrome continues to eat away the progress of the country’s football since those who are qualified do not reach deep into the competition ending up being bundled out in the early stages. Henceforth, when this chance of parading four teams comes again, this time around, the eligible ones should thrive to ensure that they perform well in order to earn a chance of reaching farther than the first or second round of the campaign. They need to have ample preparation time to tune up for such big matches putting in mind that it could have been a great experience to see teams like Young Africans, Azam and Biashara United who earned tickets to play in CAF Interclub matches continue doing so up to date. Here, basing on the fact that only Simba are battling for the international duels, they need to fully be respected as they are literally the only man standing on a war field while at the same time making sure that everyone gives them (Simba) the full support. They now travel to play against USGN of Niger in Niamey on February 20th before facing RS Berkane from Morocco on February 27th with both games tricky but in accordance with the performance showcased by Simba at home, they can snatch a victory at away turf. Head Coach Pablo Franco, during his post-match interview after flooring ASEC Mimosas admitted that it was a tough match he anticipated to face in the group stage mission but was convinced with the garnered win. He also hailed his charges for putting on a spirited performance to subdue their opponents while urging them to scale up their efficiency especially when it comes to goal mouth actions as they missed several scoring opportunities on the day. As a sport loving country, people always expect Tanzania teams to do well mainly in international duels bearing in mind that by registering triumph, it becomes a ‘Christmas Gift’ to them hence are eager to support their teams reach big standards. Time is here to begin making strategies of winning CAF Interclub titles as the period to compete is enough and it should be substituted with clinching the silverwares in order to fully quench desire of millions of football fans in the country. Yes, potential and willingness is always there and the country is full of quality players and clubs which without doubt can make a big step on the global platform. One day, Tanzanians would be happy to see one of their team winning a CAF title and enabling it to kiss the country’s soil for the first time.