JATU Plc, an agri-firm startup, is determined to promote its agricultural and industrial projects to attract more investors as well as new customers, its General Manager Mohammed Simbano has said. Jatu, officially registered on Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) in November 2020, so far has a total of over 19,000 shareholders, out of which over 5,000 are farmers. According to the company’s General Manager Mohammed Simbano, they have also managed to attract over 60,000 customer members who offer reliable market for Jatu’s agricultural and industrial products from its investors. In a bid to lure more investors and customers, the company, on Wednesday this week, announced a popular Bongo artist Mrisho Mpoto as its ambassador to promote the company’s agricultural, industrial and financial products. “In recognising the importance of water in agriculture, we have decided to support efforts by the government, we also announce him as our ambassador,” Mr Simbano pointed out in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday. He said their company will use him to market projects through the televisions to make the public know of opportunities available in agriculture. “By using Mpoto as ambassador we are going to market our projects in agriculture, livestock and water that are undertaken during this leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan,” he stressed. He will act as ambassador for the company for three years, during which he will be engaged in TV programmes. Jatu involved in agriculture, industries and markets since 2016. The star-up strategic plan is to cover all districts of Tanzania through farming, industries and network marketing strategies. Currently the company is conducting agricultural projects of beans, rice, maize and sunflower, avocados, oranges, orange fleshed sweet potatoes, onions and vegetables. Jatu also has factories in Kibaigwa, Dodoma for producing maize flour, and sunflower cooking oil; Kilombero in Morogoro for rice processing and Kilindi Tanga for processing of beans.