Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) and Chinese company- CRRC International inked a contract on Tuesday for the purchase of 1430 Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) wagons worth 127.2 million US dollars equivalent to 294bn/-. TRC Director General, Masanja Kadogosa said the 12-month contract will include designing and production of wagons for hauling various types of cargo. “The wagons that will be purchased under this agreement includes 400 Covered Large Bogie (CLB) for carrying general cargo such as sugar, cement, salt, cotton, tobacco, and coffee, and 600 Container Carrier Bogie (CCB) for carrying containers,” he said He added, “Others are 190 Petroleum Tank Bogies (PTB) for all types of fuel, 70 High Large Bogies (HLB) for pipes, wood, and metals, 50 Motor Goods Bogies (MGB) for cars, and 50 Cattle Wagon Bogies (CWB) for cattle.” Professionally, he opined that to generate profits in the freight transport business through modern railways, freight forward of at least 500 kilometres is required. “We anticipate that the procurement and arrival of these wagons will be as early as February 2023 and coincide with the completion of the SGR project from Morogoro to Makutupora, where the freight service will be able to bring productivity to the nation.” Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa said that due to the enormous capacity of SGR wagons, congestion at the port of Dar es Salaam will be greatly reduced, with each wagon capable of transporting 10,000 tonnes of cargoes at a time, comparable to 500 trucks. “This is a big company, so there's no reason we shouldn't get wagons that don't meet the standards we agreed on; that will be Tanzanians' weakness, not a company's,” he said. Prof Mbarawa also warned those who will be in charge of overseeing the manufacturing of the wagons to maintain quality and not compromise it for any reason. CRRC International General Manager Assistant, Mr Tang Yun Peng said that as the world's largest manufacturer of rolling stock, they are confident in their ability to deliver the best wagons for the project. “I recall our first project in Tanzania almost half a century ago for the Tanzania railway central corridor project, but I believe this is a new chapter that we have opened with your country,” Mr Peng said, adding that Tanzania will be a leading country in the East African countries in railway transport in the future, adding that they are looking forward to providing more services to ensure they offer the best services. On October 1, 2020, TRC and the EUROWAGON Company of Turkey inked a deal for the purchase of two electric locomotives and 30 passenger carriages. The total value of this deal is 26.60 million EUR. In April 2022, the contractor is expected to deliver the equipment. TRC and Hyundai Rotem, a South Korean corporation, also signed a deal on July 14, 2021, for the purchase of 17 electric locomotives, 10 sets of electric trains (Electric Multiple Unit-EMU), and one electric locomotive simulator for 295.74 million US dollars. This project is projected to take 34 months to complete. Similarly, on September 23, 2020, the corporation inked an agreement with SSRST Company of South Korea for the procurement of 59 passenger carriages. Preliminary payments have been made, and maintenance work reached 60 per cent by January 2022. This two-year agreement will come to an end on September 22, 2022. As of December 2021, construction of the piece from Morogoro - Makutupora reached 79 per cent, Mwanza - Isaka 4.27 per cent. Along with the ongoing construction of the Dar es Salaam-Morogoro section, work on the 426-kilometre long Morogoro-Makutupora section of the SGR is currently ongoing and has reached 79 per cent as of December 2021.