THE 19th edition of the globally-acclaimed Sauti za Busara Festival came to a thrilling climax on Sunday night after three days of powerful performance that breathed life into the Old Fort and the Stone Town neighbourhood.
The 2022 event was held under the theme: Amplifying Women’s Voices. In his opening remarks, the festival’s Director Yusuf Mahmoud noted that in the hands of the right people, microphones are “our weapon to fight injustice, to build peace and unity across borders.”
He also stressed “Sauti za Busara is not only entertainment for tourists; this event is also an important platform to promote human rights, freedom of expression and respect for cultural diversity.”
Over three nights, 20 groups thrilled audience from across the world to catch a glimpse of Africa’s musical diversity and talent.
For many of the performers and revellers in attendance, this was their first outing in almost two years due to the global pandemic which had brought international travel and economies to a standstill.
The artists were mainly drawn from the Eastern and Southern Africa regions, given the complicated travel restrictions that certain parts of the world still face due to the pandemic.
The rich line-up of artistes featured Siti & The Band, Sholo Mwamba, Vitalis Maembe, Ben Pol, Zan Ubuntu, Wamwiduka Band, Nadi Ikhwan Safaa, Upendo Manase and Bahati Female Band representing Tanzania and Suzan Kerunen from Uganda.
Artists from Southern Africa included Sampa The Great from Zambia, Msaki, Sjava and Nomfusi from South Africa, Evans Pfumela Mapfumo and SylentNqo from Zimbabwe, Fanie Fayar from Congo Brazzaville and Aleksand Saya from Reunion.
Speaking after her performance on Sunday, South Africa’s Msaki said it was her first time to be at the festival, even though she had applied many times to participate.
She noted Sauti za Busara was not only talking about gender imbalance in the music industry, but also taking positive action behind the scenes, to ensure women are included in stage and technical crews.
“I enjoyed the two nights that I performed here, it was thrilling to be out here with appreciative audiences after two difficult years when many countries were under lockdowns,” she said.
Tanzania’s RnB singer Ben Pol who was also performing for the first time said “I have met many people here and made friends from many countries across the world who identify with my music.”
Grace Mayala from Dar es Salaam, who was also attending for the first time, said she was convinced by friends who have been attending the festival for several years.
“I knew none of the artists on the lineup previously, but the music was hilarious especially the performance by Sholo Mwamba who made everyone dance,” she said.
However, two days after the festival director had said they were unable to announce the dates for next year’s event due to lack of funding commitments, Tanzania’s Minister for Youths, Culture, Arts and Sports Mohammed Mchengerwa pledged to support the festival.
“We shall do all that is possible to make sure this festival takes place again next year,” he said.
Over the years, the festival has hosted fringe activities alongside the main event. Local and visiting music professionals turned out in large numbers to participate in the daily Movers & Shakersmeet-and-greet sessions, where again the main focus was to amplify women’s voices.
Other fringe events including the Carnival Parade, Swahili Encounters music collaborations and additional two stages sadly had to be cancelled due to shortage of funding.