AT last, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) is poised to introduce Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) for cement, sugar and cooking oil as it has been proposed by the Parliamentary Budget Committee, it has been learned. Through an invitation for a tender advert which appeared in newspapers yesterday, the tax collector invited contractors for supply, installation, configuration, commissioning and operation of the system for ETS under the self-financing scheme which will also cover the new products. The addition of the three products will bring the total number of products subjected to ETS to ten. Seven products that are presently marked with the stamps include imported and locally produced beers, wines and spirits, fruit wines (banana and rosella), soft drinks in addition to bottled water and juices. According to estimates indicated by TRA in the advert, the electronic stamps will be affixed on 142,312,084 units of cement per annum as well as 163,462,950 units of sugar and 21,356,908 units of cooking oil per annum. Figures availed by the tax collector show that a total of 6,990,231,942 units per annum will be affixed with the digital tax stamps in the new tender. “The main objective and purpose of this contract are to ensure that TRA has an effective mechanism to control and monitor revenue collection on the excisable goods through the use of electronic tax stamps systems,” reads part of the advert.  It noted further that through the system TRA will be able to enhance tax compliance, combat illicit trade and thus minimize the risk of revenue loss to the government. Presenting views of the parliamentary budget committee for the financial year 2021/2022 in the parliament in June last year, its Chairman,  Mr Daniel Sillo, proposed adoption of the digital tax stamps on cement, sugar in addition to cosmetics, farm inputs and veterinary medicines. The committee reasoned that the system is crucial for curbing tax evasion and smuggling of harmful products which not only harm citizens but create an unfavourable playing ground for local producers. Introduction of Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) is part enforcement of Section 5 (1) of the Tanzania Revenue Act Chapter 399 R.E of 2019 which requires all excisable goods to be affixed with digital stamps. Enforcement of the legislation is implemented through the Regulations for Electronic Tax Stamps Management System of 2018. The first phase of the system was introduced in January 2019 through a Swiss company (SICPA) which currently provides software and hardware for the technology. The first phase of the system covered tobacco products, wines, spirits and beers while the second phase came into force in August 2019 and covered additional products namely bottled water, fruit and vegetable juices. The digital system replaces the hitherto physical paper tax stamps which were prone to cheating of taxes through under declaration by some dishonest manufacturers and importers