SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has successfully funded over 200 students from low-income families through its Kilimo-Viwanda funding programme in higher education institutions. This initiative, which aims to provide young people with skills in agriculture-related colleges, is one of SBL’s strategies for ensuring the community’s sustainability and development as consumers of the company’s products. It is through this initiative that SBL becomes a socially responsible company, ready to assist the community in achieving development, particularly the youth, the next generation. It directly contributes to the government’s efforts for the people in sectors that affect people’s lives and require inspiration from the country’s development partners. For instance, a few months ago, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) granted Tanzania a loan worth 1.3tri/- to improve Tanzania’s socioeconomic wellbeing after Covid-19. And according to the Ministry of Finance and Planning over 300bn/- and 5bn/- have been granted to revitalize the educational sector and youth, women and people with disabilities. Furthermore, Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu Hassan explained how the mega loan would benefit the country and its people. “We will build 15,000 new classrooms and 200 healthcare centres while repairing the old ones,” she said. The President asked partners to assist the government in meeting sectoral challenges and instilling new hope in citizens. In the same vein, SBL gives bright students a second chance in life through their Kilimo Viwanda scholarship programme to awaken the country’s dreams and hopes. Rebecca Juma, a new beneficiary from Kaole Wazazi College of Agriculture, shared her experience. She stated, “I am astounded to have such a gift. I never thought I’d be able to get it, and now that I’m grateful to SBL for this opportunity, I intend to put my all into my studies. SBL has inspired me to believe in the impossibility of the impossible,” Rebecca is very passionate about agriculture, and she is determined to become a large commercial farmer to supply SBL cereals such as barley, sorghum, and maize for beer production. “I am interested in agriculture, and hearing the SBL Managing Director, Mr Mark Ocitti, explain the sourcing of 18,000 tonnes of raw materials from local farmers annually has motivated me to study harder to protect my future as a successful agribusiness farmer,” she said. Ruhigo Mayala, a new college beneficiary from Igabiro Institute of Agriculture in Bukoba, expressed his heartfelt gratitude to SBL for making his dream a reality. “This scholarship came just in time because my parents were desperately trying to make one’s meat. I come from an eightsibling family. You can imagine how difficult it is to meet the basic needs of all of the children in the family. This scholarship is a complete blessing,” Mayala said. Mayala is adamant about getting a field study or job at SBL. He is adamant about this because he will have numerous opportunities to pass on his agricultural knowledge to SBL. ‘I am optimistic about my future now. If SBL can provide me with a scholarship, I am confident they will provide me with a job opportunity someday. Lucy Urio, one of the Kilacha scholarship recipients, described her life before the scholarship. “It was difficult studying without college fees; sometimes I just had to sit in class without taking any exams and wait, probably for a miracle to get me through each year,” she explained. Lucy attests that after hearing about the opportunity from her college president, she rushed to apply and was eventually chosen. She claims that the programme has changed her life, particularly through practical experience. “I was fortunate to visit the SBL plan in Moshi, where I saw the beer-making process and learned about special cereals such as barley, sorghum, and maize,” Lucy said. Emmanuel Raymond Mboge is a second-year general agriculture student at St. Maria Goretti College. “Before the scholarship, I stayed at home with my family because I didn’t have any fees to begin my certificate education,” he explained. Mboge said that after being chosen for the scholarship, he became determined to make himself and his family proud. “I am the only one in my family of four children (including my parents) who has reached this level of education,” Mboge continued. I am driven to share my success with everyone, particularly my family. Mboge’s parents are small farmers who grow paddy at Mvomero in Morogoro. After completing his college education, he hopes to assist them in becoming better commercial farmers. SBL is committed to ensuring that the Kilimo Viwanda scholarship continues to accommodate as many students as possible in the coming years as part of its mission to give bright students a second chance in life. Kilacha Agriculture Institute in Moshi, Kaole Wazazi College of Agriculture in Bagamoyo, St. Maria Goretti Agriculture Training Institute in Iringa, and Igabiro Institute of Agriculture in Bukoba are currently program beneficiaries.