WHEN Tatu Omar Kombo, an albino, was sitting for her Form IV final examinations, it happened that she could not read conveniently one of the examination papers because of impartial vision; she informed the invigilator about her problem, but unfortunately the invigilator replied; “we cannot waste time on you.” Mr Omar Said Issa, an albino and now a medical doctor, also shared his experience that when he was in Form II, he could not read small letters on the blackboard and asked the teacher to increase fonts, but the teacher mocked him and refused to help him follow-up the lesson by writing bigger letters. These were among several testimonies from ‘People With Disabilities (PWDs)’ and other stakeholders shared at a forum organized by Association of Non – Governmental organizations of Zanzibar (ANGOZA) aimed to get views on how to improve the disability law and policy as planned by the government through the Office of the First Vice President, which is responsible for PWDs. During the discussion which involved albinos, the bind, the deaf, the handicapped, teachers, journalists, human rights activists, NGOs, students, housing engineers, religious leaders and officers from government institutions, several challenges facing people with disabilities were revealed with proposals of how to overcome them, including having new a law and policy. PWDs deserve all rights like all other human beings, but their rights are broken or denied beginning at family level: children with disability, mainly the blind and mental disability are hidden as it is a shame for some families. They are not taken to school and have no rights to socialization. On streets, members of the community still have stigma, are discriminated and there is use of unacceptable names on PWDs, while most of the infrastructures are unfriendly, yet it is taking long for people to change their perception. It remains difficult for the blind, deaf and the cripple to access most buildings, including government buildings, classrooms, health facilities, courts, and roads. “It is unfortunate that many engineers, architects, planers, and construction supervisors do not consider needs of the PWDs, for example, when we asked whether the ongoing construction of buildings for Hospitals in each district, PWDs were considered, the reply was that only one out of ten buildings would be conveniently accessible for PWDs,” Mr Hassan Mohamed says. Ms Raya Mohamed, an albino as well, says that it is over a decade since the government introduced inclusive schools, with support from development partners, with aim to mix with children with disability so that they feel being part of the community. “But inclusive education it has not been effective because of the lack of teachers trained to deal with children with disabilities, congestions in classrooms and the few children with special fail to cope with their colleagues, and lack of teaching equipment,” she argues. Other challenges that hamper the development of PWDs are: In hospitals and Courts, the staffs cannot communicate with the people with disability as they have no knowledge about sign language, body screening for albino and special sun cream is expensive and not available in all areas of Zanzibar. Ms Salma Saadat- Chairperson of Zanzibar National Council of People with Disabilities seconded observations of most participants that challenges facing PWDs can end only if members of the community change their mindsets by accepting the fact that all people are equal, regardless of physical appearance. Activists say that the wrong perception on PWDs remain rampant among commuter/public transport operators mainly conductors, hospital workers, stigma from students, family members, relatives, security officers, people in markets, and contractors who wrongly think that disability is inability to do anything and their rights are limited. A legal consultant and researcher, Mr Haji Mzee Ali also conducted an analysis of policy and law regarding PWDs in Zanzibar, identifying many gaps and challenges such as the right to employment, education, health, information, judicial decisions, equality/standard services, and right to sports and recreation, among others. In his analysis Mr Ali also found out that there have been no sign language and interpreters for the PWDs seeking medical care and other services, and that although Zanzibar has recorded significant achievement in education system with inclusive education in 20 schools, “it is unfortunate little progress can be seen practice due to shortage of qualified teachers who can handle PWDs. For example, the lawyer mentioned that at Kisiwandui Inclusive School, classes have about 75 -76 students with 2-4 student disabilities, but there is shortage of learning and teaching materials such as braille and readable fonts for children with partial visual impairment, and also many building being inaccessible to PWDs. He argues that Zanzibar under the umbrella of the United Republic of Tanzania recognizes and implements the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights of 1948 as well as the United Nation Convention on the Right of PWDs of 2009, whereby those documents Tanzania signed and ratified and also the African Chatter on Human and Peoples Rights of PWDs. He says that the Zanzibar Constitution,1984, also guarantees that all people are equal before the law, which means that even the people with disabilities are equal before law, and provides no room any discrimination. It is estimated that 73,425 people out of the more than 1.5 million populations (projection of 2018) are people with disabilities. But in response to all the challenges unveiled at the meeting and the revealed through analysis of the lawyer, the government has promised to have better law and policy that will protect and promote the rights of the PWDs in Zanzibar. “Think about the best way to reduce or do away with challenges facing people with disability in our country, the government is fully committed to ensure Zanzibar is a better place for all regardless of physical status,” said Minister Dr Saada Mkuya Salum who is responsible for people with disabilities. Speaking at different occasions, including when she officiated the forum on ‘Challenges facing PWDs in Zanzibar’ organized by ANGOZA – Ms Salum said the proposed new law and policy are already in progress and “We need PWDs and stakeholders in the defense of persons with disabilities to air their views that will result in having the latest law for the protection of people with disabilities.” ANGOZA organized the forum amid increasing complaints from PWDs against violation or denial of their constitutional rights and calling on the government not only have better law and policy, but enforcement and public perception on PWDs should change.