THE executives and officers implementing the Ecosystem Based Adaptation for Rural Resilience (EBARR) project in the country have been asked to speed-up the construction of wells for the public to fast enough have access to safe and clean water. Taking the stance here, State Minister, Vice-President’s Office (Union affairs and environment) Dr Suleiman Jaffo, while inspecting the implementation of the project in Matemwe, Unguja North A District, said much of the affected areas have the impacts felt in their water sources. “You should complete the project in time as per the agreement without request for additional time. People in Matemwe are eagerly waiting for water from the wells,” Jaffo emphasizing: “Climate change is a global challenge being addressed through mitigation and adaptation projects.” Dr Jaffo said that the impacts of climate are visible in many areas and seen as drought, rising temperatures and for Zanzibar- drying up or salinity of fresh water wells appearing as well as unreliable rainy seasons. Zanzibar State Minister, First Vice-President’s Office (Environment) Dr Saada Mkuya Salum thanked the union government for the climate change adaptation project, which included purchasing six fishing boats, construction of six water wells in three shehias (community areas) of Kijini, Mbuyutende, and Jugakuu and manufacturing of environmentally friendly cooking stoves. “The five-year EBARR project should be implemented in time,” Ms Salum said, adding that the project that started in 2018 was also being implemented in Tanzania mainland (districts of Kishapu, Mvomero, Mpwapwa, and Simanjiro). She said more than 1.1bn/- was allocated for the implementation of the project in Unguja North A district and coordinated by the union Vice-President’s office in collaboration with the First Vice President in the Island. It also includes promoting proper/planned use of land for settlement, agriculture, livestock, forest protection (Mangroves) and protection of water sources and prevention of land conflict. “The project also benefits residents particularly women and youth who are trained and skilled on how to make eco-friendly cooking stoves, which minimise heavy reliance on wood and charcoal leading to deforestations,” she said.