TANZANIA Shipping Agency (TASAC) has called upon short distance marine transporters to give priority to safety of passengers and cargo by specifically observing laws and regulations. TASAC’s Director General Mr Kaimu Mkeyenge said on Monday that transporters must bear in mind that safety is an important factor for the development of any nation. He further said: “Ferry operators and other marine transporters must adhere to rules and regulations set up to assure that passengers (read citizens) and their cargo are safe throughout their voyages.” Mr Mkeyenge made the revelation, while opening of a workshop to marine stakeholders aimed at enlightening the investors on the laws, rules and regulations on marine transportation which TASAC is mandated to oversee. Elaborating, he noted that Merchant Shipping Act Cap 1, 65 tasks TASAC with the authority of administering safety to all private and public owned marine vessels, including ferries and boats which plying in water bodies like Indian Ocean, lakes and rivers. “Those who defy safety rules will be liable for written warning, hefty fines or even having their vessels suspended until proved otherwise by TASAC. This is for the safety reasons of averting deadly accidents which are of negative consequences for national development,” he said. On her part, TASC acting Director of Legal Services, Ms Judith Kakongwe, said that ferry and boat services providers should obey rules and regulations, adding: “All transporters are to comply with requirements of the law like having a mechanism of compensating victims….and a compulsory insurance for third party liability. Also hire sufficient number of qualified operators to run water transportation services.” Her list also included putting in place a clear system of safeguarding water and its environment, where she clarified that that all marine vessels are required to have a good system of waste management, which will see passengers not throwing garbage in lakes, rivers or ocean on their entire voyages. While ferries and short distance boats are owned by some private players, the government assumes its ownership through the Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Services Agency.