THE Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has urged youth at Higher learning institutions to use various social media platforms wisely and positively to enhance their self-development and that of the society. The TCRA Northern Zone Manager, Imelda Salum, stressed on the need of social media users, especially the youths to use the social media platforms economically, instead of using it as the platform for spreading hatred. Eng Imelda noted here recently that scholars in high learning institutions were victims of cyber-attacks and cyber bullying, due to being carefree. “While there are numerous benefits from sharing and communicating through social media, it is also a risky. Cybercriminals have taken advantage of the carefree way that people use social media platforms, usually with bait schemes that put users at risk with a simple tap or click of a disguised link,” observed the TCRA zonal chief. Engineer Salum challenged the youths to be careful of what they do in the cyber space, explaining that from their social media posts, comments and tweets, opinions could be formed about their character and disposition to issues and people. According to the TCRA official,multiple studies have demonstrated strong link between heavy social media and an increased risk for depression, anxiety, loneliness, self-harm, and even suicidal thoughts to youths. “The oversharing happening on social media makes young men and women weak targets for hackers,” she opined. Engineer Salum equally challenged the youth with business mindset arguing that social media could help them engage with their customers and find out what people are saying about their businesses. On April 1 2015, the Tanzanian parliament passed a cyber-crime law that attempts to address child pornography, cyber bullying, online impersonation, electronic production of racist and xenophobic content, unsolicited messages, illegal interception of communications, and publication of false information. The legal provision criminalizes offences related to computer systems and Information Communication Technologies; provides for investigation, collection, and use of electronic evidence in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, except to article 50 which do not operate in Zanzibar.