SIMBA players are upbeat to claim points in their second away game of the Confederation Cup match against RS Berkane at Stade Municipal de Berkane in Morocco today. A win in their second away group D match will heighten Simba to seven points at the helm of the group thereby handing them a good chance to qualify for the quarterfinal stage of the tournament. The squad arrived safely in Berkane on Saturday from Casablanca where they had pitched a brief camp upon their return from Niger where they stamped a 1-1 away draw with the hosts US Gendarmerie Nationale. In his remarks, the team's playmaker Bernard Morrison insisted they are all upbeat to do well and they know what to do in order to produce the convincing results. "Everyone is ok and ready for the game...we know why we are here and what is on stake hence, we have shaped ourselves well for Sunday's (today) match," said Morrison who scored an equaliser in their match against USGN. He continued: "Simba is a big club with big players and we know what is in front of us plus what we have to do to win the match and that is what we are here for." His colleague Erasto Nyoni also cemented that they have had a good training programmes and are ripe for the encounter even though they are aware that it will be difficult. "We are mentally and physically prepared for the match and comprehending well whatever the coach is tasking us to during the game. "We had a chance to review their played two matches and they are a good side but we are too preparing well to stamp positive results which will make us stable in our group," said Nyoni who is among the veteran players at Simba. However, according to the team's manager Patrick Rweyemamu sidelined midfielder Jonas Mkude as a doubt for today's battle saying his health has not yet been stabilised despite training with the team in their first training session after landing in Morocco. As it stands, in group D, Simba top the pile with 4 points seconded by ASEC Mimosas with 3 points so as RS Berkane who have also garnered 3 points while USGN of Niger are at the base with one point from two games played by each side. Simba already set their minimum target of the contest as reaching in the semifinals and if they continue with the same gear in every match, they will easily attain their objective. In Moroccan Premier League, RS Berkane are placed on third slot with 28 points from 18 matches as Wydad Casablanca top the table followed by Raja Casablanca.