THE government has received various ICT equipment worth 105bn/- from the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), through Global Health Security Programme, that aims to boost the fight against emerging and re-merging respiratory diseases. The Global Health Security Programme is led by the Management and Development for Health (MDH). The donation is part of the US government’s efforts through CDC to support the Ministry of Health to improve data management and reporting in the context of Covid -19. Speaking after receiving the consignment in Dodoma yesterday, Acting Assistant Director of Epidemiology and Disease Control Section in the Ministry of Health Dr Rogath Kishimba said the equipment will be distributed in 18 official centres to support diseases surveillance and response. Dr Kishimba said that the section has great responsibility to conduct surveillance of respiratory diseases, saying the equipment will help in early detection and timely reporting before the diseases turn into an epidemic. “It’s very important for us to receive early information from those centres, so we could be able to control the diseases which are an epidemic potential,” he said. He praised the donation and asked the stakeholders to continue supporting the section to control the diseases. Speaking on behalf of MDH Chief Executive Officer, Dr Nzovu Ulenga, who is a Chief Operating Officer (COO), said MDH, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health through CDC funding, is implementing three major projects aimed at improving the government’s capacity to fight epidemics. Dr Ulenga added that MDH also builds laboratory capacity to detect outbreaks of parasites, especially Covid-19 and to provide reports for appropriate disease control measures and the strengthening of systems for collecting and reporting outbreaks within 24 hours. COO also advised that in combating epidemics, three factors that are important to be emphasized to every stakeholder including the ability to detect the causes of these diseases, to provide information quickly and efficiently, and to take appropriate measures to combat the relevant disease by following national and international procedures. “We are committed to improving the capacity to provide immediate information, monitor and control outbreaks of diseases that affect the respiratory system” he expressed. Finally, Dr Ulenga commended CDC, Ministry of Health and local government ministr, and other stakeholders in designing and implementing all policies y and technical strategies in monitoring and controlling respiratory diseases in the country.