DEPUTY Minister for Agriculture, Mr Anthony Mavunde has reiterated the government resolve to streamline research on strategic crops including coffee in efforts to revolutionalise the agricultural sector. Equally, he tasked the Tanzania Coffee Board (TCB) management to stop working from the office and instead search for reliable and attractive markets. Mr Mavunde issued the directives on Thursday when he distributed at least two million improved robusta seedlings to the farmers free of charge in a function held at Kyerwa District’s Kalukwanzi village in Isingiro Ward. “Investing on research is of paramount importance. The government increased the budget on research from 7.43bn/- during 2020/2021 financial year to 11.6bn/- in the next financial year 2022/2023. More efforts are also being taken including sending some agricultural experts to countries with advanced technologies to learn new agricultural technologies,” he said. Elaborating, he said Tanzania was implementing a five-year strategic plan aimed to increase coffee production from 78,000 metric tonnes to 300,000 metric tonnes by 2025. The plan goes simultaneously with producing 20 million improved coffee seedlings each year. Minister Mavunde explained that the number of agricultural extension officers in the country currently stands at 6,704 while the actual demand is 20,000. “Apart from ensuring the availability of improved coffee seedlings efforts are also being taken to modernise extension services by motivating extension officers and equip them with soil testing kits and extension kits,” he said. He noted that another big challenge facing farmers in the country is lack of capital investment, adding that the government recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with several financial institutions to address the problem. He lauded CRDB Bank Plc for taking a grand initiative by slashing lending rates to farmers and salaried workers, a move that would greatly stimulate the country’s economic development. “I commend some of the financial institutions that have taken action to address the problem including the CRDB Bank Plc which recently pushed down the lending rates from the normal 20 per cent to 9 per cent. This is a commendable step,” he said. CRDB Bank Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Managing Director, Abdulmajid Nsekela recently announced in Dar es Salaam that the lender had slashed lending rates to farmers from the normal 20 per cent to nine per cent to boost lending to the key economic sector that employs over 75 per cent of the country’s workforce. The bank also slashed the lending rate for salaried employees to 13 per cent from the normal 16 per cent. “The significant reduction in interest rates to farmers and workers was the result of the bank’s pledge and implementation of President Samia Suluhu Hassan directives issued last November that centered on boosting the economy,” he said. The Deputy Minister said the government was committed to strengthen ties with the private sector through Public Private Partnership (PPP). He commended JJAD Kagera Farmers (T) Ltd for taking a holistic approach of producing improved robusta seedlings. JJAD Kagera Farmers (T) Ltd Managing Director, Dr Albert Katagira informed him that under the MoU the institution had planned to produce at least 2 million improved robusta seedlings but produced 3.8 million seedlings which would be distributed to the farmers free of charge.