THE High Court's Commercial Division has ordered Tropical Foods Limited and her Director, Al Nasir Mohammad Somji, to pay 658,841.55 US dollars (about 1.5bn/-) immediately to the Bank of India (Tanzania) Limited being an outstanding loan facility advanced in 2015. Judge Katharina Mteule ruled in favour of the Bank, the plaintiff, after granting a commercial suit it had lodged against the company and her principal officer, the defendants, in order to recover such amount which also comprised of the principal amount, interest and penal interests. “Judgment is hereby entered against the defendants jointly and severally and the plaintiff is entitled to the following reliefs: immediate payment of 658,841.55 US dollars (about 1.5bn/-); payment of interest(s) and costs of the suit,” the judge declared in part. In determining the suit, the judge had consider some issues, including whether the company entered into Finance Facility Contract of 2.3 million US dollars (about 5.3bn/-) with the plaintiff and whether there was a breach of the terms and conditions of the finance facility contract by either party. She had also to consider whether the director had guaranteed obligation of the company in respect of the repayment of the loan and to what extent. Having gone through the evidence tendered by the two sides, the judge answered all the framed issues in the affirmative in favour of the Bank. Judge Mteule noted that it was not in dispute that in 2015, the plaintiff advanced two types of loans to the company and that sometimes in 2016 the defendants met repayment difficulties which prompted a request for adjustment of the repayment schedule which was accordingly agreed by the bank. However, having evaluating the evidence produced she concluded, therefore, that the loan was not fully paid, hence there was a breach of terms and conditions of the loan facilities by the Company, a leader in manufacturing Fruit Juices and variety of Home Products. The judge also ruled that the director guaranteed the loan to the extent of 2.3 million US dollars (about 5.3bn/-) as per the Personal Guarantee and Indemnity which was registered to the tune of such amount. During the hearing, the court was told that the plaintiff and the company engaged in financial deal where on July 15, 2015, the company obtained from the plaintiff a Demand Loan Facility of 1.2 million US dollars (about 2.7bn/-) and a Term Loan Facility of 1.1 million US dollars (about 2.5bn/-). The director guaranteed the repayment of the facilities. Subsequent to the aforesaid facilities, further transactions took place to secure the facilities including, a debenture issued by the company with an aggregated amount of 2.3 million US dollars (about 5.3bn/-), which was registered to cover such amount plus interest. There was also a mortgage dated July 16, 2015 over a property situated at Vingunguti Industrial Area, Dares Salaam City in the name of the company secure such sum, which was registered to cover 2,875,000 US dollars and a Personal Guarantee and Indemnity executed by the director. Sometimes in July 2016 upon the company's request, some adjustments were effected to the facilities. The repayment schedule for Demand Loan of 1.2 million US dollars was adjusted from 24 months to 33 months and installment amount reduced from 54,000 US dollars to 40,360 US dollars. Repayment schedule for Term Loan of 1.1 US dollars was adjusted to 18 equated Quarterly Installment of 72,570 US dollars, each commencing from January 17, and moratorium 16 months, door to door tenor of 70 months. The interest was to be serviced during the moratorium period and installment to be due for payment on the last day of the month. In the Plaint, the plaintiffs alleged that the Company repaid some of the loan amounts and failed to pay an outstanding amount of 658,841.55 US dollars comprised of the principal amount, interest and penal interest as of December 1, 2019. Such circumstances led to categorization of the loan as a non-performing loan in accordance with Bank of Tanzania Regulations.