THE Agricultural and Water Parliamentary Committee has recommended the establishment of a planning commission for proper coordination and sustainability of development projects for the betterment of the country’s economy. The committee made the suggestion in the Parliament when tabling a report on the implementation of its activities during the past one year. Presenting the report, its Chairperson Dr Christine Ishengoma said presence of the commission will also help the government have smooth implementation of its long-term joint plans. “The committee has observed that since our country is still economically young it needs planning commission. Absence of such commission leads to lack of good coordination of projects initiated by a particular sector since changes of leadership affects sustainability of implementation and efficiency. Experience shows that in the past Tanzania once had the National Planning Commission whereby all sectors were forced to bring their plans to the commission to help them plan well and implement as per the national budget. “The government should see the importance of reinstating the Planning Commission and make it autonomous under the President’s Office. The government should also empower it financially and give enough experts for it to set proper development plans for the country on behalf of the government,” Dr Ishengoma explained. Dr Ishengoma further stated the committee also wanted the government to strengthen water services. The committee was of the view that water is an essential service for human life and an engine for socio-economic development. “Reliable water services and a clean environment contributes to prevention of diseases and this strengthening and improving lives of citizens,” she said. Climate changes, population increase and increased human activities have led to high destruction of water sources, thus causing decline in water level. The committee recommended that in the next fiscal year the government set aside a budget and start implementing projects for construction of strategic dams of Kidunda, Farkwa and Ndembera in a bid to up the country's capacity of reserving water. The committee also proposed that the government team up with the private sector in putting up a system for harvesting water countrywide in order to ensure that rain waters are not lost but reserved for human consumption, agriculture and livestock. The government should also fast-track the completion of ongoing water projects countrywide and ensure all villages near those projects benefit from those projects.