PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Saturday received a report from a special team he formed to investigate the recent killings in Mtwara and Kilindi District in Tanga region. The nine member team was formed early this month following the directives issued by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Police officers are alleged to be the perpetrators of the heinous crime in Mtwara region. Speaking after receiving the report, the PM   commended the committee for the great work which they handled with great care and high level of professionalism. "This report has made everything very clear and this is the expectation of our government that any civil servant within the government must be accountable with the utmost professionalism and integrity. In doing so the responsibility of    serving the citizens will go smoothly," he said. He noted that after going through the report, he will present it to President Samia who issued directives for the formation of the committee. President Samia needs to see the results, which is fairness to everyone, but also results that will hold to account anyone who will be found to have been involved in the incidents which were likely to cause chaos in the country. The committee started its work officially on February 4 this year and was supposed to have completed the task on February 17 but following the nature of the task, the committee requested for additional time, prompting the investigation deadline to be extended to February 23. President Samia issued the directives on the formation of the probe team when speaking to the residents of Magu District in Mwanza region while en route to Mara region to grace the climax of the 45th anniversary celebrations of Chama Cha Mapinduzi. “Based on what I have heard so far, the Police force has formed a committee to investigate the killings and eventually release a report. They cannot commit murder and then conduct inquiry into the crime themselves,” President Samia was quoted the day she ordered for the formation of a probe team. “I have told the Prime Minister to form an impartial team to investigate the recent killings in Mtwara, in which seven police officers are accused of being the perpetrators of the heinous crime.” President Samia added, noting that the government would await for the report from an impartial committee, and compare it with the Police Force’s document, before taking appropriate measures. The Head of State also warned the police to evaluate themselves in light of recent crimes, urging the Minister for Home Affairs to keep an eye on the recent disturbing police behaviour. According to the Prime Minister, the Committee was made up of officers from the National Prosecution Office, the President’s Office, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), the Attorney General’s Office, and the Prime Minister’s