PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has been working tirelessly towards addressing Tanzania’s development challenges in an effort to achieve sustainable economic growth for the country. Ever since she assumed the reins in March last year, the President has hardly had time to rest. She is regularly on the road, relentlessly pursuing her development targets, whether social, cultural, political or economic goals. The Head of State is currently on a working tour of Belgium, having concluded a similar tour in France as she continues with her quest to market the country at a regional and international level and bringing investment to the country. Since taking power, President Samia has demonstrated huge commitment to take Tanzania to the next level, and make the country participate actively in the global economy, from the regional to multilateral levels. The President’s resolve is well demonstrated in a number of measures taken to improve trade and investment environments and policies. Addressing members of the French Business Confederation (MEDEF) in Paris, President Samia welcomed investors to Tanzania, touting a raft of reforms taken by her government, aimed at improving the business environment in the country. The Tanzanian leader invited potential investors to explore world-class opportunities in the East African nation in livestock, agriculture, energy, mining and other sectors. Thanks to measures taken by her government to improve the business environment, Tanzania has witnessed a surge in foreign direct investments (FIDs) inflows over the past one year. According to available statistics, Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) registered 256 new projects in 2021 worth $3.749 billion, which are expected to create a total of 53,025 jobs. President Samia’s trips abroad have also been significant in marketing the country’s tourist attractions abroad and positioning Tanzania as a preferred tourism destination. Her foreign trips have not only proved crucial in promoting economic development in the country, but also helped the country clinch significant bilateral and economic agreements, as well as raise the country’s international profile. Hence, economic diplomacy should and must remain a priority area for Tanzania’s foreign policy with the specific objectives of improving market access and trade with bilateral partners and increasing foreign direct investment.