THE 14th round of NBC Premier League rages on today with a solo fixture pitting rejuvenated Azam against Dodoma Jiji at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. The two teams will be searching for maximum three points that will enhance their race towards the Premier League diadem. It is the penultimate fix- ture of the first round as the highly competitive season reaches half way next week. It will be an entertaining encounter as whenever they meet, one expects to witness a classic performance as each side boasts of the quality players keen to help their teams emerge victors at the end of the 90th minute. From 13 matches, the Chamazi-based Azam have accumulated 21 points and can knock off Mbeya City from the third slot on the table if they produce positive results today. Under the tutelage of Hamid Moallin, who recent- ly got promoted to the Head Coach status, Azam have been transformed a lot in terms of how they play and are among the difficult sides to beat in the contest. His remarkable achieve- ment drove the team into the 2022 Mapinduzi Cup final. They stamped a hundred per cent work rate en route to the finishing line but surren- dered the title to Simba after a slim 1-0 loss. After that, they pocketed six points from their two back to back away league fixtures as they defeated Mbeya Kwanza 1-0 before edging out Tanzania Prisons 4-0, and all these good results helped put the team on the right track. On the other hand, Dodoma Jiji are also a side to reckon with in the race as they have groomed a squad capable of winning matches regardless of where they are playing. From their 13 previous league duels, they have bagged 17 points after winning four matches, drawing five games and losing four encounters in the process. However, in their past two matches, Dodoma Jiji have picked one point out of maximum six points as they were held to a barren draw by Geita Gold before a 2-1 loss to Kagera Sugar hence; they will be aiming for the victory as a consolation to their fans. League action continues tomorrow with two matches to be held in different ven- ues. At Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam, the league's leaders Young Africans will host Mbeya City while at Kaitaba Stadi- um in Kagera, Kagera Sugar will entertain Coastal Union from Tanga.