TANZANIAN volleyball prodigy, David Neeke is relishing a new challenge after joining the Trail Blazers club that features in the Kenyan Volleyball Federation (KVF) league this year. Neeke told the ‘Sunday News’ from Nairobi, Kenya on Saturday that he is delighted to secure contract with Blazers after serving Equity Bank Volleyball Club also of Kenya. “My contract with Equity bank ended last year so I decided to look for a new challenge, am happy that Blazers gave me this important chance to serve them,” he said. Neeke added that he is happy also to start his career well at Blazer after the team clinched Kenya National Beach Volleyball Tour 2021 trophy in December last year. He played in a partnership with Juliard Mbappe to help Blazers claim the title. Neeke said he is feeling good, healthy and looking forward to the brilliant 2022 league season that starts on February 12th. “We have started training ahead of a tough league season, so far everything is going well,” he said. He added he expects to have tough duels as the league brings together highly competitive teams. “We are preparing for a stiff battle, February 12th  is not far, but I am optimistic we will be able to overcome any challenge as we also are at a powerful club,” he explained. However, Neeke said their target is to play well and advance to the level of the elite African Club Championship. Neeke, who is also a national beach volleyball team member, was among the four national team members who won Africa Zone V Beach Volleyball championship staged in Kampala Uganda in 2019. They went on to qualify for the continental Championship in Morocco which serves as Africa Tokyo 2020 Olympic qualifier, but financial constraints prevented them to travel to the venue. Neeke joined Equity from Mombasa Prisons also of Kenya. He has so far played for the third Kenyan team at a professional level. Though the coronavirus threat limited him to showcase his skill at Equity bank, he always had a desire to play in Europe, but injuries and the Corona crisis were his major setbacks. The former Jeshi Stars player, Neeke said in Kenya volleyball is different from Tanzania. Like most sports in Kenya, volleyball is an employment, players can live on it and dedicate time for the game, but in Tanzania players still play for fun.