FEMALE students in the country have been encouraged to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Dr Wangeci Gatei from the Division of Global Health Protection US challenged the students at a Pamoja 60 Conference Series here to explore opportunities presented by STEM related disciplines. The veterinarian and health scientist from the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) highlighted STEM as a gateway to careers full of opportunities. “Do not just disqualify yourself, put your best foot forward and make the most of the opportunities that come with such studies,” explained Dr Gatei, while offering leadership lessons to female students gathered at the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology(NM-AIST). Sharing similar sentiments, a STEM coordinator and a Science-In-To-Use (SITU) head of department Rukia Hatibu underscored the importance of female students to embrace the disciplines for them to be on the same page with their opposite gender. There is an urgent need to engage with girls at primary and secondary school levels to raise the visibility of STEM subjects as a potential career trajectory, said Ms Hatibu on the occasion of International Day of Women and Girls in Science here on Friday. On her part, former Deputy Permanent Secretary in the then Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Juliana Pallangyo, challenged female students not to give up on their dreams of thriving in STEM. Earlier, while delivering remarks on behalf of the US Ambassador to Tanzania, the Director of Press and Communication at the US Embassy Mike Pryor said STEM remained a key priority to the United States of America, further calling on authorities to remove barriers that lock out women from pursuing such subjects. According to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) only 35 per cent of STEM students in higher education globally are women. The UN agency further notes that a strong gender imbalance exists globally, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, in regard to women representation in STEM fields. According to the United Nations Institute of Statistics (UIS) less than 30 per cent of the world’s researchers are women. Numerous studies have found that women in STEM fields publish less, are paid less for their research and do not progress as far as men in their careers.