PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has decried abuse of sexual related laws in the public by people, who falsely frame others in cases so that the accused are denied bail. The President criticized such acts after being informed that jails and Police cells are packed with people being accused of sexual offences and most of them being the youth, yet some of the cases are unfounded and in court, the  plaintiff  never show up. He said the law related to sexual offenses should be reviewed to make the crimes unbailable in efforts to intensify the fight against such acts; some people have been misusing the law by falsely framing cases so that accused persons are denied bail. “The laws were reviewed including making sexual offences unbailable, because we want to end abuse of children. There are pros and cons in implementing the law because some people are misusing it by framing cases,” Dr Mwinyi said at the climax of the ‘Zanzibar National Law Day’ held here yesterday. Earlier,  Acting Chief Justice Khamis Ramadhan Shaaban, and the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Salma Ali Hassan noted that remand cells are ‘packed with the  youth’ suspects of sexual abuse, yet in some cases they are framed and when it comes to court procedures, the plaintiffs  never show up to  give evidence . Dr Mwinyi expressed his astonishment about heartbreaking cases of sexual abuse, citing a case where an elderly man abused a two-year old child, adding: “Some victims came to see me…very frustrated. We must join hands to end violence against children and women.” Despite the problem of having many suspects of sexual offences in prisons (reformatory centres), President praised the judiciary administration and management led by acting Chief Justice Shaaban for admirable reforms in the courts, which aim at  improving  efficiency. “If you perform poorly we blame you, but also for those who perform wonders are being praised ...since his appointment, few months ago, the Acting Chief Justice has been doing a good job ... the future is bright. Let us support him to achieve the targets,” Dr Mwinyi said, as he reinforced the use of Kiswahili in court proceedings and strengthening Zanzibar/Mainland judiciary relations. Dr Mwinyi said  in his 22-minutes’ speech that if Judiciary system is performing well, the strengthened  collaborations with the executives and the House of Representatives will make  Zanzibar stand a chance of speeding up development for its people and become a trusted place for investors because ‘justice, economy, and social rights and linked. The president emphasized the need for having better laws in the islands, and friendly courts in order to attract more investments. “Make our Courts free of bureaucracy, corruption, and judiciary staff should be role models to the public by expressing acceptable behaviors and abide by ethics,” He urged continued improvement of infrastructure, strengthening use of ‘Case flow Management Committees’ in addressing  challenges, establishing ‘Arbitration centres’, promoting use ICT, and avoiding case delays as the president promised to provide  judiciary with enough funds for the planned activities. The president also accepted the request to turn the former historical building of the High Court at Vuga Street, Stone Town into a ‘Court Museum.” Commenting, the Minister of state- President’s Office (Constitution, Legal Affairs, Public Service, and Good governance) Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman said at the Law Day gathering that so far the development of the judiciary which includes DPP, Courts, and Kadhis court is progressing well.  