MORE than 20 businessmen have shown interest to participate in the Pakistan exhibition which is expected to take place between 25-27 this month. That exhibition which is specific for African and Central Asian countries will be held in Lahore, Pakistan. The Pakistan Engineering & Health care exhibition for Africa and Central Asian Republics is organized by the Trade Development Authority of Pakistan (TDAP) and the private sector in Pakistan. The Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) President, Mr Paul Koyi advised traders and industrialists in the country to grab the opportunity through which they can secure new markets. He said TCCIA expects to register more participants in the exhibition within three weeks as it is part of learning and helps bring together stakeholders with similar interests and innovation. “Exhibitions are good and very important as they enable them to promote business, to grab opportunities, updates of new products and technology in the market,” he said. “Not only just to participate in the exhibition, Business to Business or conference but it is very beneficial for traders and manufacturers as they meet people with the same wing but for everyone with their technology which at the end of the day they can implement in their own countries.  Commenting on the exhibition, he said it was a large exhibition that covered almost all sectors; he said “Those who will go there are mostly industrialists but they will also be at the exhibition with their distributors and that is not tourism but a 100 per cent business.” He called on manufacturers to see that as an opportunity to learn new technologies, especially in the field of engineering and pharmaceutical. Mr Koyi said Pakistan was making every effort to keep African countries up to date with the latest technology in all sectors. He said in January 2020 Pakistan launched a very special move in Kenya to support economic drive especially for African countries where 54 African countries were invited. So that exhibition wants to be a bit similar to the conference they held in Nairobi which created many opportunities but it will be unique and colourful as there will be exhibitions of various products. “I urge various business stakeholders to participate in the exhibitions. Not only this, even those occurred in different areas because it is a real tangible Corporation. It is an investment, not a cost full to a serious businessman,” said Mr Koyi. On his part, the Pakistani ambassador Mr Saleem said the highlights of the show were an exhibition of Pakistan engineering goods including heavy, medium and light engineering products and healthcare (pharmaceutical, medical devices and surgical equipment). “The major products being displayed in the exhibition were agricultural machinery and farming implements, electric machinery, construction materials, surgical instruments and medical equipment,” he said.