A decision by the government of Tanzania to take over farms from about 2,000 farmers in Amani division that borders the Amani Nature Forest Reserve (ANR) in Muheza District in Tanga Region is paying off as the Derema Forest takes a new shape in thickening. The result has been the hilly area getting much rain, almost throughout the year and the recovery of catchment area that was almost due to be lost due to human activities, such as farming, felling of trees and charcoal making. Stakeholders, including farmers whose farms were taken gave the testimony recently at Derema Corridor, saying that although they lost their land more than 15 years ago, can now see how wise the government’s decision, through Tanzania Forests Services (TFS) was. Speaking at Antakaye village, Chairman of Derema Farmers Association, Mr Hamza Maghembe said loss of their land, whereby individuals lost up to 20 hectares and remained with between a hectare and three; there has been substantial weather improvement in the area. Secretary to the association that still fights for unpaid compensation to some farmers, Mr Mohammed Sheshe said they were working hand in hand with TFS and the government generally to conserve the forest that is the source of water to Tanga residents. “Taking over of the farms was a good and correct decision by the government, although some people are yet to be compensated. Initially some of us did not agree to let the government take our land, but later we mutually agreed. As you can see, the forest is now thick, we enjoy the cool weather and our area is the source of water that Tanga residents use,” noted the secretary. The stakeholders were speaking at a tour coordinated by the Journalists' Environmental Association of Tanzania (JET) and funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)’s Tuhifadhi Maliasili Project. For decades, the Tanzanian government has been acting to conserve the forests of the Eastern Usambara Mountains because of their biodiversity and importance as a water catchment. The government realised that Derema, then an unprotected forest corridor of 956 hectares, contributed to the fragmentation of the continuous forest belt which covered the mountains. To reduce fragmentation, the government sought to link the Derema Forest Corridor to ANR and later the communities in five villages adjacent to the forest agreed to abandon cultivation of high-value crops inside the forest— including cardamom, black pepper and cloves that were extremely important to household incomes and local livelihoods and give up their land to the government for conservation in return for adequate compensation. The farmers, through the secretary, asked the government and stakeholders to support them in alternative economic activities, such as initiating Village Community Banking (VICOBA) and provide them with capital to start farming in the newly apportioned farms at Kibaranga. Muheza District Agricultural Officer (Statistics), Mr Adam Nyenza, said the solution to the farmers is to conduct modern mixed farming in the small plots and will get quality harvests. Amani is the largest forested block within the East Usambara Mountains and occupies the southern extremity of the mountains in Muheza and Korogwe districts ofTanga region. The ANR consists of tall luxurious sub montane forests and deciduous to semi-deciduous lowland forests with an area of 8,380 hectares.