RECENTLY, there has been a move from politicians (Daily news 31st January 2022 front page) highlighting what appears as new efforts under the 6th phase government to increase the revenue from horticulture to Tsh.2trillion by 2026. Under this thinking, members of the horticulture Association (TAHA) at their 15th annual general meeting were told of a five-year strategic plan for 2021-2026 targeting an estimated USD1bn per year. Much as it sounds inspiring, this wish list target is not new to those with good memory on previous initiatives conducted on a similar issue. An assessment on how to grab, capture and increase Tanzanian export to the world market was detailed done, when now retired DR Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete was a president. This vision of wanting to increase revenue from exports is not new as in 2007-8 there were efforts that looked at the whole export system as the party of economic diplomacy and the report was produced and given to the ministry of industry and trade, a task that I full participated working closely with the business unit within the Tanzania high commission in the United Kingdom. Without questioning what went wrong or right, 14 years later, once again calling to raise export revenue creates many questions than answers. But what can be said in this kind of political will aspiration is that without a robust strategy that has taken on board demand side factors, focusing on product quality issues alone will not meet envisioned target. A strategy that fails to marry demand-side terms and conditions with supply-side desires is bound to fail. I am not a devil advocate, but to the best of my knowledge and having examined in detail what the demand side is like more needs to be done over and above envisioned fiveyear strategy to reach USD 1bn yearly. Tanzania’s ability to play a significant role in foreign affairs is reliant increasingly on its stature as a player in the region and world economy. Therefore, for Tanzania to meet social and developmental goals at home and maintain and enhance its leadership to increase its export within the region and the rest of the world, exports must rise, but this to happen, there is a need to put our setting and supportive environment in order. Tanzania has considerable export potential. This simple statement is often expressed in various forms in the media and public forums by the government, annual association meetings and business leaders. Nevertheless, when public opinion and utterance of some leaders are scrutinized in further detail, one discovers a keen sense of scepticism regarding Tanzanian’s export growth prospects. Which view is correct? Each judgment holds an element of truth. Those expressing doubt are basing their beliefs on Tanzania’s current, low level of exports, on the nation’s actual export trends in recent years, and constraints facing exporters. It is easy to support an argument of export pessimism. At the same time, it is a fact that Tanzania possesses the resources needed to expand exports significantly and to capture a much larger share of international trade markets especially now under what is known as the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) a striving trade pact to form the world’s largest free trade area by connecting almost 1.3bn people across 54 African nations. Therefore, export optimists can also present persuasive arguments. The good sense why these contradictory viewpoints are both sensible is that Tanzania’s potential is dormant rather than realized. The basic elements necessary for export success are not yet sufficiently crafted or developed, and the overall framework for exporting requires firm enhancement. Consequently, Tanzania could experience either an era of export-led economic growth or a continuation of lacklustre export performance. Based on research I have conducted examining the EU market and Africa looking at demand and supply side, realizing export success in the current global economic ecosystem is the most difficult challenge for both exporting companies and exporting countries. Exporting companies for overseas market shares with competitors from all nations. Domestic standards in terms of quality without benchmarks and price in my assessment are irrelevant as exported goods must stand up against the best in the world if to remains in the game and capture market share. In most product categories Tanzania is a new player in global markets, and thus producers, who unfortunately are just beginning to taste what the market can offer face steep learning curves. Tanzanian exporters must battle an uphill battle. For Tanzania, public and private sector leaders and specifically politicians need to acknowledge that public statements do not generate exports. Tanzania needs an extraordinary amount of action and cooperation between government and businessunparalleled in terms of both depth and breadth of true export success is to be realized. Based on the current experience of distrust and even competition between Tanzania’s public and private sectors, one could easily settle that the prospect is that the actions and cooperation required will not take place. On the other hand, growing exports for the good of the country could serve as a jointly held goal, like competitors joining as allies against a common enemy. If Tanzania can achieve real success in developing exports, this will signify that the economy is succeeding, that development progress is being made, and that Tanzania is taking its rightful place in the economies of the East Africa region, Africa, and the world. Successful export growth, if asked what need to be done must involve many actors and proceed at a variety of levels. The overall initiative must be guided by a commonly held vision for the future and not politics for sake of pleasing farmers in rallies. This vision, if truly Tanzania aims at entering competitively the export market must embody the aspirations of the Tanzanian people in a challenging but achievable way. This dream must not only be backed by the highest levels of political leadership but simultaneously engrave mindset change aimed at empowering key players i.e., farmers. Overall, Tanzania has not yet reached its true potential as a national or regional power given its strategic God given geographical location and endowment. Notwithstanding Tanzania’s historical and political standing, cultural heritage, strategic geographic position and pivotal role in the East Africa peace process, Tanzania’s prominence will not meet its potential until its economy grows to equal the nation’s cultural, economic, and political height.