NATIONAL wheelchair women and men’s tennis teams have asked sports well-wishers support of 10.3m/- that will facilitate their participation in the global BNP Paribas Team Cup tournament. The two-week long tournament is scheduled to shootout from March 12th to 27th  this year in Turkey drawing top teams from across the world. National wheelchair tennis team’s coach Riziki Salum told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the prestigious event is on top gear despite the lack of funds. Salum said that they are preparing to send six players; three women and two for the men’s teams. He said that currently the team is undergoing intensive training at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) to prepare for the event that also serves as the World Wheelchair Team Cup qualifier. He named the women’s team members as Rehema Selemani, Lucy Shirima and Pendo James, while men team’s list has Voster Isaya, Jumanne Nasoro and Albert John. Salum added that if all goes well the Tanzanian envoys are expected to leave the country on March 9th  and return on 29th this year. “The preparation is going well, but we need financial support so that we can facilitate our training programme and a trip to Turkey  as well,” he said. “The team continues to practice well and players are in a good shape looking forward to play in the event,” he added. Adding, Salum said the teams need four return flight tickets, accommodation, participation fee, visa fee and insurance package for a delegation of players and officials. “We are looking for about Euro 2, 800/- for seven-man delegation, accommodation, visas 910 US Dollar and insurance package of 350 US dollar, all together are about 10.3m/-, we appeal for the government, institutions, companies and sports well-wishers to assist the team so that we can put our country into the world map,” said Salum. Salum said with support, the teams can represent Tanzania well in the international level arenas. “We have wonderful and very talented players, they only need support to motivate them, and I am sure they can do well in the event,” noted Salum. Novatus Temba and Hamis Juma represented the country in the event held in Portugal and managed to finish at the eighth position.