TRADERS in Mtwara have showered praises on the government for its decision to expand and improve services at the regional port, saying cargo handling and other services have now eased the whole chain of doing business in the region. Traders who gave their testimonies on how the terminal benefits them when speaking to the Tanzania Standard Newspapers Limited (TSN) reporters on Thursday include representatives from Ruvuma Coal Limited (Mtwara Branch), Oilcom Tanzania Ltd (Mtwara Branch), Southern Shipping Services Ltd (Mtwara Branch) and Alghubra Marine Services from Zanzibar. Oilcom Tanzania Ltd Representative, Jackson Tumwanga said when the oil company was receiving its oil consignment through Dar es Salaam Port, it was incurring high operational costs since the firm was forced to offload fuel at the Dar terminal from oil tankers before again loading to small ships destined for Mtwara Port. “Offloading fuel from oil tankers at Dar es Salaam Port before reloading into small ships destined for Mtwara caused what we call ‘double handling’, a practice that caused transport and other operational charges to be high,” he said. According to Tumwanga, double handling not only prompted operation costs to be high but the practice also caused pump prices to go up, hurting consumers in Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma regions where the firm supplies fuel. With the expansion of Mtwara Port and installation of all necessary infrastructures such as the flow meter, fuel cargo meant to be supplied to the southern regions is directly shipped to Mtwara terminal, a practice that now reduces cargo handling time and operational costs, resulting in affordable pump prices to consumers. “Now, we ship direct fuel consignment from abroad to Mtwara Port. We are indeed satisfied with the services offered by the port management staff, including the testing procedures of the quality of fuel by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards,” Tumwanga testified. According to Tumwanga, each month the oil firm receives 2.4 million litres of petrol and another 2.4 million litres of diesel through Mtwara port. He said the firm now plans to expand its fuel storage infrastructures by installing two tanks, each with the capacity to store 12.5 million litres of fuel. Southern Shipping Services Ltd Operation Manager, Esthersia Mallya said, after the construction of the new berth at Mtwara Port and the purchase of modern cargo handling equipment, services offered at the terminal have significantly improved. She said recently they received a ship at Mtwara Port for the purpose of loading 5,000 tonnes of cement and ferrying it to the Comoros. According to her, it took them only a single day to load 5,000 tonnes of the building material as opposed to the past when the same size of cargo was loaded onto the vessel for between seven and ten days. Sincerely speaking the improvements made by the governments through TPA are significant. We see modern cargo handling equipment, enough manpower, timely billing, all these facilitating quick operations. We thank President Samia’s government for this milestone,” Mallya said. Said Gadafi, a representative from Ruvuma Coal Limited (Mtwara Branch) said the expansion of the terminal and improvement of other services have enabled the company to increase the size of cargo exported abroad. According to Gadafi, Ruvuma Coal Limited exports the energy generating material through Mtwara Port to India and China, adding that talks are underway so that the firm can start exporting coal to the Middle East. “Before the expansion of the port we were exporting 30,000 tonnes of coal every three months to overseas markets but after the improvement in service delivery by the port, including smooth cargo handling procedures, we now export 55, 000 tonnes every 45 days,” he said. Gadafi sincerely thanked the government, especially President Samia for her support to the operations of ports, asking other members of the business community to fully exploit business opportunities in the southern regions since the gateway to oversee markets (Mtwara Port) is fully supportive. Alghubra Marine Services Director, Abdulsamad Mohamed Suleiman, whose firm engages in cement business, said his company buys the building material from Mtwara (Dangote Cement) before ferrying it to Zanzibar and the Comoros. He said before the upgrading of Mtwara Port the working environment was unfriendly for them, a situation that has significantly changed after the expansion project which involved the purchasing of modern cargo handling equipment. “Mtwara Port now offers first class services; it is now among the best ports in the country and perhaps along the Indian Ocean coast. It has state-of the art equipment to facilitate quick cargo handling with dedicated staff,” he said.