PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan visit to France has started bearing fruits with the first French business community delegation expected to jet into the country in the coming few weeks, and more others in the coming months. France Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Nabil Hajlaoui addressing the media in Dar es Salaam, yesterday disclosed that while presenting an overview of President Samia’s working visit in his country, which started on February 10-14 this year. “In a few weeks to come, the country will be receiving various business communities’ delegations…this follows the meetings of President Samia during her working visit to France, where she met with the members of the French Business Confederation (MEDEF),” further said Ambassador Hajlaoui. He noted that various missions including a major visit of the MEDEF delegation slated for May this year, will explore future projects within the framework of bringing more investments into Tanzania with the major goal of transforming the country into an economic and logistics’ hub in the East African Region. Elaborating, the envoy said they have already started preparing for the visits so that they become as fruitful as possible, adding that the business communities were not just coming for a tour, but rather exploring prospective investment opportunities in Tanzania. He further said achievements recorded during her visit became another game changer in the relationship between the two countries, as it brings new perception of the partnership. Ambassador Hajlaoui added: “France is a close partner in the Indian Ocean, therefore, the trip was a game changer because France wants to work with Tanzania on security, maritime security and blue economy and military cooperation in which the two countries share similar objectives and strength. “The most important thing is that it’s a game changer, because Tanzania is a partner with whom we share common values of democracy, women empowerment and rule of law. We have decided to back this to upscale our relationship.” Citing funding agreement for projects such as the Bus Rapid Transport funded by French Development Agency (AFD) and agriculture among others worth 250 million euros which is very significant because it has doubled, he said the two countries have also agreed on several other projects. Similarly, they also agreed on a road map to cover projects in different fields in the near future worth about 1 billion US dollars, adding that the country was very eager to support Tanzania also in other schemes. Equally, the envoy highlighted on signing an agreement on blue economy and maritime security, saying as neigbhours in some parts of the Indian Ocean, their goal is to foster cooperation in the area. Besides the issue of health raised, he said support to Tanzania was not the first time his country was extending assistance, but the broader goal was to work on building capacities of the locals, explore medicine and domestic vaccine production as a major milestone for the future As France wants to work with Tanzania to be the next economic and logistic hub in the East African region, the Ambassador said that the two countries were eyeing holding meetings in the coming period to open negotiations on infrastructure, transport, port and Airport projects. Outlining more areas of follow-ups, he said issues of security and military cooperation topped the list, adding that Tanzania is also facing similar threats like France in its borders, citing some as illegal migrations, terrorism and others. “We have agreed to hold a meeting in the area between our military, security and intelligence people, the objective being to tackle the global and regional threats as partners and bring the capacities to address the problems in an effective way,” he added. Expounding further, the Ambassador stressed that the French-Tanzania ties do not rely on information exchanges only-the cooperation is more about investment, noting that they want French investors to establish new projects and create more jobs in Tanzania. “This trip is a game changer for the next phase of cooperation between Tanzania and France, we stand with Tanzania to realise its goals because we have the ambitions to do this...we want the global gateway project, which is quite huge accumulating over 300 billion euros to be used partly for building infrastructure here in Tanzania,” he said.