PLANS are underway to make the oncoming Serengeti Music Festival be a 24-hour show as one way to quench people thirsty. The news is a relief to music lovers who will attend the show at Jamhuri Stadium in capital Dodoma on March 12th this year. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports Hassan Abbasi disclosed this recently in Dar es Salaam saying the event is going to be amazing as it will have a good balance of old and current musicians. He said the government is planning to make it a 24- hour event as many artists will be lined up to take full charge of the stage as such; he said it will not be surprising to see the show consuming all 24 hours. "The unique part of this event is that it will bring back to life legendary musicians who in one way or the other have been forgotten in the music industry but did a great job to push this industry where it is now," said him. "As they say, 'old is gold' that is why we have not left behind legends to colour this show. If you remember, last year during the same event, those who received a massive vibe from the audience were legendary musicians because they are the ones who made the industry as strong as it is now," Abbasi noted. Again, the PS reiterated that Bongo Flava, aside from making people happy, has the potential to promote the country's tourism while insisting that the pegged number of 50+ artists expected to perform on the day could be exceeded to 70 musicians in order to accommodate many performers. He again pointed out that using the name 'Serengeti' alone is one of the indicators of including the arts sector to propel tourism saying the two sides are inseparable and will continue to be used concurrently. "Also, the Royal Tour Film which is yet to be produced and set to advance tourism has shown how significant the arts industry is to our nation hence artistes have a big role to play in helping the country move forward," he said. Furthermore, Abbasi noted that the festival is for all Tanzanian artistes regardless which recording label they come from thereby; it is their best platform to showcase what they are capable of doing.