PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has issued a seven-day extension for the probe team to finalise investigations relating to killings in Mtwara Region and Kilindi District in Tanga Region. The probe team that had begun its work on February 4th, this year, was initially scheduled to complete its reports within 14 days, which ended on February 17th 2022. According to a statement issued on Sunday by the Prime Minister’s Office, due to the size of the task and need for further scrutiny on the various issues, the committee requested for seven more days from February 17 to February 23 to finalise the investigations. “I appeal to all responsible organs to accord necessary cooperation to the committee, this will allow them to carry out their work effectively and be able to complete on time,” said Mr Majaliwa. The special nine-member team was formed following the directive issued by President Samia Suluhu Hassan on February 4th this year, while speaking to the residents of Magu District in Mwanza Region, while on her way to Mara Region to grace the climax of the 45th anniversary celebrations of ruling party Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). The Committee is made up of officers from the National Prosecution Office, the President’s Office, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), the Attorney General’s Office, and the Prime Minister’s Office. Based on the issue, Mr Majaliwa had to instruct the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro to suspend high ranking Mtwara and Kilindi Police officers. He named the officers as Mtwara Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mtwara Regional Crime Officer (RCO) and Mtwara Police Station’s Officer Commanding Station (OCS) where businessman Mussa Hamis (25) was allegedly killed and Assistant Superintendent of Police Greyson Mahembe allegedly committed suicide, saying, “These officers should also stand aside to create room for investigations by the team.” Furthermore, the Premier also directed the Kilindi District Police Commander and the District Crime Officer to stand aside to allow the investigation to proceed smoothly. According to a police report, Mahembe was found hanging in custody on January 22nd, 2022. He had been remanded on suspicion of violating the country’s laws to extort money from Mr Hamis, before killing him and throwing his body in the bushes in Namgogori Village, Mtwara Region. As per the report, Mahembe and other police officers did not report the incident to their superiors since they were aware that they had violated the country’s laws. “When questioned, Mahembe explained the full chronology of the incident and then accompanied detectives to the location where they had dumped Hamis body and his information was documented and matched with other evidence that had already been obtained,” according to a police report made available to the media. The accused seven police officers include Gilbert Kalanje, Charles Onyango, Bicolas Kisinza, John Msuya, Marco Mbota, Shiraz Ally Mkuka and Salum Juma Mbalu. The officers have been arraigned at the Mtwara Residents’ Magistrate Court in connection with the killing of Hamis in Mtwara after they (the police) allegedly took 70m/- away from him.