BENEFICIARIES of the national poverty alleviation scheme at Kaole Village in Bagomoyo District have challenged their fellows to make use of the interest-free loans resulting from the allocation of 10 per cent local government revenues to boost their businesses and obtain financial stability. The call was made by the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) savings groups during a joint field visit by a delegation from the Embassy of Sweden and Ireland in the Coast Region on Monday to oversee the activities implemented by the poverty scheme. The Secretary of Tupandane TASAF Savings Group, Tabu Mwinyi disclosed that their group has managed to secure a 7m/- loan from the Bagamoyo District Council without any bureaucracy or disturbance. “We requested a loan amounting to 10m/- but we obtained 7m/- after submitting our business plan and all other relevant documentation in our application,” said Tabu. According to her, the group obtained assistance from TASAF officials and the council’s Development Officer after undergoing various training sessions. She pointed out that initially the group had two business ideas which included selling large stock of fish to Dar es Salaam and Farming but the fish business idea succeeded, thus enabling the group to secure the much-needed loan. Ms Tabu encouraged their counterparts countrywide to exploit the opportunities to boost their incomes for their families to get rid of poverty. Bagamoyo District Executive Director, Mr Shauri Selenda commended TASAF for supporting and uplifting people living in abject poverty to transform their lives and contribute to the development of the country. “The poverty situation in Bagamoyo has improved due to the support provided by TASAF and through the interest-free loans dished out by the councils. “We have been encouraging the designated groups to apply for the loans by following the required procedures,” said Mr Selenda. Mr Selenda pointed out in the July-September 2021 quarter, the council disbursed a total of 307m/- to people and will soon dish out another 300m/- for the second quarter which ended in December. He revealed that the goal is to disburse 1bn/- in the whole financial year of 2021/2022 to boost the incomes of the residents of Bagamoyo. On her part, the Senior Programme Manager-Inclusive Economic development at the Embassy of Sweden, Ms Annie Sturinge, was pleased with remarkable progress made by the TASAF beneficiaries in all spheres. “It’s quite appealing that the beneficiaries are demonstrating that they are quite ready to graduate from the program. “Really, I am glad to see the group daring to apply for the government funding unlike the past days when they would just express interest but did not show course,” noted Ms Sturinge. TASAF Director of Community Support, Mr Stephen Elisha, viewed that the program was one among the most successful and largest to be implemented in the country in terms of the financing of over 2tri/- and coverage of one quarter of the population.