CAF Referees instructor Leslie Liunda has defended decision of referee Omar Mdoe to allow Simba’s goal during their NBC Premier League match against Mbeya Kwanza at the Benjamin Mkapa stadium. Referee Mdoe from Tanga allowed the goal Simba netted in the 80th minute that enabled the Dar es Salaam giants to secure a slim 1-0 win over the Mbeya-based side. Mdoe’s decision to allow the goal which many thought there was an offside offence was received with mixed reactions by football stakeholders across the country. The football fans claim the goal converted by the Zambian international Clatous Chama was done while his team mate Meddie Kagere was on offside position. But some of them claimed it was a clean goal as Mbeya Kwanza defender killed the offside deliberately in attempt to clear the danger. Liunda, the veteran FIFA class referee jumped into the topic to give his expert view on the defence of Mdoe insisting that he was right and should be congratulated by all stakeholders for his decision. Making clarification of the rule, Liunda said there was no offside as Mbeya Kwanza defender intentionally played the ball, saw it coming to his side from distance and that he attempted to play. “It is clear goal, no offside there as the Mbeya Kwanza defender saw the ball coming in his way and that he deliberately attempted to clear away. It could be offside if the defender didn’t see the ball deflect on him,”said Liunda. Liunda described other scenario that involved Meddie Kagere saying he was not offside as he was down looking on the opposite side of the ball’s direction. It deflected on his body hence he didn’t intentionally attempt to play it. The retired match official had his word to say on football stakeholders and pundit in particular that they should never be quick to make the judgement on matters involving understanding law of the game and instead they should rather stay quiet or consult specialists on the areas. “In any matter that needs understanding of the law of the game, I advise the so called pundits on radios and Television stations to abstain from making judgements, they should consult the specialised personnels on the matters. It is fine if they got it right in their judgements, but if they went wrong as they did in this issue they are misleading the mass and that is very bad for our football,” said Liunda. Citing reference from English Premier League pundits he said they argue in matters that need experts’ clarification but in the end they find live the expert and air his knowledge on the issue.