MEMBERS of Parliament have called on the government to fast-track preparation of the ‘Business Facilitation Act’, so as to facilitate full implementation of the blueprint on regulatory and licensing reform. The move, the lawmakers said, will help stimulate investments and economic growth in the country. The blueprint, which was prepared some years ago after thorough consultations with various private sector associations and World Bank officials, is aimed to see amendments of various laws including those governing Value Added Tax (VAT), regulatory bodies, immigration and labour, social security and environmental management. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Industries, Trade and Environment stated in the House that despite several reforms done by the government, there were still a number of challenges that have continued to affect smooth operations of investment projects and businesses in the country. Presenting the committee’s report on Monday, Chairman David Kihenzile said that the committee has found that a good number of laws and policies which need reforms are yet to be improved, thus affecting implementation of the blueprint. He said that the committee sees that by facilitating full implementation of the blueprint will enable traders, manufactures and entrepreneurs to utilise economic opportunities well and compete effectively in the domestic, regional and world markets. “The government should also come up with recommendations to amend several other laws and policies governing the industrial and investment sector,” he said. According to Mr Kihenzile, many policies governing important sectors are outdated and need immediate review, if the country is pioneered to achieve its development targets including the industrialisation drive. The committee also saw the growing online businesses, as one of the areas which needs closer eye by the government. Kihenzile said it was high time now where the government should come up with a special strategy to control online businesses which are operating irregularly and thus denying the government its revenues. “However, some of the businesses were engaging with fraud acts, so by controlling them will help protect consumers from fraud and theft events,” he said. He further said the committee wants the government to establish a special authority, which will be controlling and supervising levies and when any government institution or company wants to reduce or increase levies has to inform the authority first. “Traders and investors are still decrying the multiple taxes and levies, which are imposed on them by several regulatory bodies and institutions, something which hurts them and thwarts their growth,” he explained. The committee also wanted the government to come up with new measures to implement the Liganga and Mchuchuma coal mining and power project which has turned out to be a white elephant. “We have been singing about this project for many years now but nothing has been done, the government has to act on this immediately,” he said.