A TOTAL of 25 goals have been netted in the round of 16 matches of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) staged in different venues countrywide before its climax on Wednesday night. All the 16 teams put on a spirited fight to claim an opportunity of venturing into the last eight, but only those who won their respective duels grabbed tickets to the quarters. Simba emerged the top scorer after scoring 7 goals in their match against Ruvu Shooting at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday thereby marching into the quarters with head up.
Their skipper John Bocco was the first to open the goal gates for the Msimbazi Street Reds and contributed a brace to his name ending a goal drought he experienced for a long time in all competitions. However, the last 16 category of the ASFC produced two hat-tricks; with the first one generated by Azam's Paul Peter while the other was netted by Clatous Chama of Simba. Coastal Union's Abdul Suleiman is the only player to score four goals in a game. The second team which squeezed into the quarterfinals with many goals was Azam who pulverised Baga Friends 6-0 in a one-sided battle at Chamazi Complex in the city. Polisi Tanzania scooped the third slot after netting two goals to nil against Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya which was another big blow to the hosts. It was the first match this season for Tanzania Prisons to play at Sokoine Stadium venue after moving away from Nelson Mandela Stadium in Sumbawanga, Rukwa where they were hosting all their games. Coastal Union of Tanga also managed to score two goals to nil versus Mtibwa Sugar to find their way into the last eight of the competition. Two teams; Young Africans and Pamba were 2-1 winners of the round of 16 after defeating Biashara United and Dodoma Jiji respectively whereas Kagera Sugar sat at the bottom of the best scorers teams as they generated a 1-0 victory over Namungo. As it stands, only Pamba are the team from First League, therefore to reach this far was not an easy task, but rather a hard-fought victory. far they go. The winners of ASFC title will represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup.