THE government has said plans are afoot to support Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL Corporation) to become competitive in offering up-to-date communications services, which are vital for economic growth of the country. Making the revelation on Sunday in Dar es Salaam, the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology Permanent Secretary, Dr Jim Yonazi further said the plan seeks to make the corporation become more competitive by increasing investments and reviewing various policies for its further growth. He said that the government is determined to ensuring that the company has skilled employees, who will help to deliver to the optimum. “TTCL Corporation is offering various communication services, which are vital for running the digital economy. The government has already put in place efforts aimed at ensuring that the company fully realises its role not only in Tanzania, but also beyond borders,” Dr Yonazi saiat the occasion, while gracing the opening of TTCL’s workers council in the city. He said the initiatives will include planning to ensure that there are enough needed modern tools and well skilled employees to run the operations competitively. Dr Yonazi, therefore, directed TTCL management to motivate its workers and from time to time train them to deliver and increase creativities. “With the ever changing technology, TTCL management on the other hand must support its staff to acquire new skills and techniques,” he said. In response, TTCL Corporation Managing Director Mr Waziri Kindamba, said his management has cordial and good working relations with its staff-a move that will make the corporation offer competitive service to Tanzanians. He said there are good policies and citing this year, noted that there will be transformation in terms of improving infrastructures. Mr Kindamba further said that TTCL has now reached a market share of 2.8 per cent in voice, data and SMS services, while on fixed data and big data, the company was almost monopolizing the country. “TTCL holds a market share of 97 per cent of big data and fixed data, which are used for development. We are also leading in offering big data and fixed data services to neighboring countries, which are connected to the fiber optic cable network,” he added. He named the countries as Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and some parts of Kenya. Others are Mozambique, Zambia, Malawi and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).