BLOOMBERG Philanthropies and Care have announced a partnership to expand currently Village Savings and Loans Associations (VSLAs) to finance the agricultural sector in Tanzania, Rwanda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Women who own small agriculture-based enterprises will be able to create capital and access loans through the partnership announced yesterday, allowing them to invest in and grow their businesses, guaranteeing long-term economic sustainability for themselves and their families. These efforts in Tanzania will focus on assisting smallscale farmers in purchasing land, equipment, and infrastructure to boost agricultural output and export premium tea. Supporting current VSLAs and identifying opportunities in the coffee, cocoa, horticulture, and legume markets, as well as strengthening gender equity in agricultural cooperatives, will be the focus also in Rwanda and Congo. The programme will train women who are currently enrolled in or have recently graduated from Bloomberg-sponsored training programmes, as well as their adult family members, who will benefit from the initiative. More than a half-million households and community members are expected to benefit from this investment. The founder of Bloomberg Philanthropies, Mr Michael Bloomberg says in collaboration with Care, Bloomberg is taking the next step in ensuring financial stability for women by teaching 150,000 people in Tanzania, Rwanda, and DRC how to invest their money and grow their small businesses over two years. “Bloomberg Philanthropies piloted VSLA initiative in Tanzania in 2020, effectively training leaders of 29,000 informal VSLA on how to use agricultural revenues,” said Mr Bloomberg. Access to cash and credit, according to him, helps women to put their abilities to work, build their enterprises, invest in their families, and achieve economic independence, with advantages that spread throughout communities. “All too often, that access is lacking – but our partnership with Care is working to change that, and we are excited to expand our work together through this new collaboration, “he said. President and CEO of Care Michelle Nunn said they know it is impossible to reach economic prosperity if women are not able to realize their full potential and capacity to contribute. “Bloomberg Philanthropies and Care are helping unleash that power,” she said, “We took the long-standing and highly impactful model of small savings groups that work together to save, lend, and start smallbusinesses and brought these groups together to amplify their savings power and to pool their resources to invest in equipment and tools for the next harvest. This is just the beginning. We hope others will follow the lead of Bloomberg Philanthropies in helping us build on the potential savings power of millions more women working together.” A VSLA is a self-managed group of 20-30 individuals that meets regularly to offer its members a safe place to save money, access loans, and obtain emergency insurance. By pooling resources and providing low-interest loans, they encourage financial inclusion and independence.