BUYERS and sellers who do not demand or issue Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFD) Receipts for any goods sold or purchased will start facing the strongest arm of the law, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) announced yesterday. TRA's Director for Taxpayer Services and Education, Richard Kayombo announced that from today, they will carry out a massive campaign dubbed ‘Kamata Wote’ (arrest them all), which seeks to create a culture of demanding receipt for every business conducted. Mr Kayombo called on the public to ensure they demand receipts for every product purchased in attempt to address tax evasion loopholes in the market, anything short of that he said would be considered as sabotage to the government revenue. Indefinite “This campaign which is indefinite, will be conducted in all regions and districts and will kick off tomorrow (today), where buyers found without EFD receipts will be liable for the fine between 30,000 and 1.5m/- depending on the value of the goods purchased,” said Mr Kayombo. Mr Kayombo added that for the sellers who do not issue receipts, the will be liable to paying a fine of between 3m/- to 4.5m/-, while the sellers with repeated offences will be taken before the court of law. On this, he said they may face up to three years jail term. The taxman said that the campaign is the main initiative of enforcing the law after some traders were conspiring with buyers to deny the government of its revenues in various ways. He said that TRA has been forced to impose fines on buyers in an effort to instill a culture of remanding a receipt every time one buys goods, since that is his/ her right and will equally help the government to collect proper taxes from the traders. “This campaign looks to end the habits of not disclosing sales made for rightful tax records and payment, which is needed for the country's development projects,”he said. Mr Kayombo said that some buyers are colluding with sellers to underprice products, while other use more than one receipt for certain goods and therefore, he warned that they will not be spared as their days are numbered. Expressing the seriousness of the exercise, the tax collector vehemently reminded members of the public to seriously keep their receipt, as misplacing the document will not be a scapegoat for breach of the law. “Some people might find loopholes like loss of the receipt, TRA here reminds that EFD's must be kept like one's precious and important item, else, those caught without the document willface  fines or confiscation of their products until the proof is presented to TRA offices,” he said. The exercise, according to Mr Kayombo, will go hand in hand with issuing education to the members of the public on why they need to ensure a EFD receipt is demanded or reporting those traders not issuing it. Also, TRA will cooperate with respective regional and district authorities and security organs where needed, to ensure that everything goes as planned. He insisted that tampering with EFD machines or not having an EFD or any other shortcomings will be considered as having a wicked agenda of sabotaging the government's activities.