IN the seventeenth century, a British flagship while at the Cape of Good Hope – on its way to India and other neighbouring countries to take enough spices which were in huge demand in Europe – had those aboard succumbed to scurvy to the extent that a ship of fifty sick men had to be sent home. Scurvy was that scary disease that left so many in serious trouble. It kept on disturbing their world until it was realised that three spoonfuls of lemon juice were enough to heal a man. Today, the world is facing nearly similar headwinds of diseases many of which are lifestyle-caused that only needs a lifestyle audit to prevent themselves from them. The fact that pulses foods are rich in protein, fibre, minerals and vitamins, tells why we can properly beat malnutrition, weight mismanagement, heart complications among others. Pulses are gluten-free, Sodium-free, Cholesterol-free, low-glycemic index and heart-healthy. For developing countries like Tanzania, whose average annual income per capita is below 1,500 US dollars, having a healthy diet that is rich in protein is a hard nut to crack as the price of meat, which is currently in the region of 9,000 Shillings per kilo, is through the roof, hardly few people does afford to consume them. Nonetheless, replacing half the meat with pulses will boost fibre and nutrient content while reducing the cost. Some reports show recently that consumption levels of coal in the world has gone beyond pre-pandemic. Knowing that this might be a puzzle to some people, it is good if it can be made a lot clearer. During the peak of Corona, the demand for coal did drop by 4 per cent in 2020 which was the steepest since World War II because, thanks to lockdown and other related measures, many industries and other power consuming activities were significantly reduced. This reduction led to switching off of coal plants because they are usually cost consuming than many other power sources. Besides, since the world economy has opened, many countries have tried to catch up with production deficits at a high speed, this meant more industries had to open and in retrospectively coal plants were again switched on and reloaded, particularly in the countries of China and India. Now return of coal in the scene is destructive because is the single largest source of global carbondioxide emissions. The above scenario requires the application of measures that will help lessen the effects. It is at this juncture that pulses come into play. Pulses, compared to an animal that gives us meat and so many other plants, have a lower carbon footprint. By low carbon footprint, it means to have little or no emission of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4). This is a big step in efforts to combat climate change. Also, pulses help extensively fight climate shock. By that, they are nitrogenfixing plants and so replaces the application of synthetic fertilizers which are used to artificially introduce nitrogen into the soil. In this way, greenhouse gases emissions are reduced because during manufacturing and application of these industrial fertilizers which tends to be detrimental to the environment in a big way. This year’s theme for World Pulses Day (WPD), as it was given by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of United Nations, states, ”Pulses to empower youth in achieving sustainable agri-food systems”. It speaks louder on the efficacy that pulses haves in creating employment for youth and women in rural areas. This year’s event will focus on testimonies and perspectives of youth organisation’s representatives. Tanzania will also commemorate this day in style. Tanzania Pulses Network (TPN) in close collaboration with other government institutions like Tanzania Agriculture Research Institute (TARI) will convene WPD in a series of events, one of them will be organising cooking and tasting event here in Dar Es Salaam in which the public will be welcomed to see and taste how these nutritious foods delicious are. This event will take place at J. Y Chande Hall, Shaaban Robert Secondary School in Dar Es Salaam. More about this and other preceding events will be communicated by the organisation’s social media account (Twitter, Instagram). This day is essential in reminding everyone that most of the solutions to our perils as a planet as within our reach and in these cases, considering pulses might be our “three spoonful’s of lemon juice”.