SINGIDA Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge has directed all the District Commissioners in the region to ensure people who impregnate or marry children are dealt with in accordance to the existing laws. Dr Mahenge issued the directive here during a stakeholders meeting that drew participants from Ikungi, Itigi and Manyoni District Councils, convened by Compassion International Tanzania to discuss various challenges related to teenage pregnancies in the region. He noted that although the regional government continues to implement the Child Act of 2009 and the Child Development Policy of 2008 which emphasizes the protection of the rights of a child, the state of violence against children; especially pregnancy and child marriage remained a major challenge. “Child marriage and pregnancy are said to be a major obstacle for a girl to realise her dreams in comparison to a boy. With all the efforts made by the government together with other development stakeholders in the region, statistics still indicate the problem continues to increase" the RC observed. Given the situation, he said, there was a need for all district commissioners in the region, who are the chairpersons for security committees in their areas to ensure all people who impregnate or marry underage girls are dealt with according to the law. He also called on the Police force and the Social Welfare departments to ensure that justice is done to protect children affected by such acts and urged the media to educate the public on the dangers of child marriage and pregnancy. He also appealed to the relevant authorities to consider the possibility of a biology subject being introduced in primary schools in order to eliminate peer pressure and teenage pregnancies at the early stage. Earlier, Compassion International Tanzania Acting Director, Ms Mary Kassanga told the meeting that the Organization figures for January this year showed that a total of 57 girls in 15 centres in Ikungi, Itigi and Manyoni district councils became pregnant. Regional social Welfare Officer, Ms Shukrani Mbago disclosed that a total of 12,000 children under the age of 20 years became pregnant during 2020/2021, out of them 98 were school children. Various stakeholders who participated in the session cited some of the factors that lead to early pregnancies and child marriages as marriage challenges, poverty, misleading traditions and customs and lack of religious education among the children. According to the Ministry of Health, Community development, Gender and Elderly, the recommended age for a woman to conceive and give birth is from 20 years old.