THE government has saved 4bn/- in the past four years that could have been spent by 49 patients had they undergone cochlea implant outside the country. The service is currently available at the country’s Muhimbili National Hospital which has enabled patients in need of the service to access it at reasonable cost. MNH Director of Surgical Services, Dr Sufian Baruani said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that from January 25 to 27 this year the hospital succeeded to perform cochlear implantation to seven children, making a total of 49 patients who have so far received the service since it was introduced at the national facility. Dr Baruani made the remarks at the event to switch on cochlear implant to the children who underwent the surgery three weeks ago. He pointed out that formerly patients were referred for surgical treatment to India, saying between 2000 and 2017 there were 50 children. Recently at MNH a single person paid not more than 36 million, meaning that for 49 patients it would have cost the government 1.7bn/-. “This shows that this service is highly needed in the country since it is available at reasonable cost,” he said. He further applauded MED-EL, a global innovation leader in hearing loss solutions for its support to help Tanzanians especially children. Dr Baruani said the MNH has been collaborating with foreign medical experts in cochlear implantation in to build capacity of the hospital specialists. He said Tanzania has local experts who are skilled and able to continue to perform cochlear implant surgery on their own by 95 percent. MHN’s Ear, Nose and Throat Specialist, Dr Edwin Liyombo said cochlear surgery has been performed to the children aged between two to three years to help them to hear and talk, thus improve their studies. A cochlear implant is a surgically implanted neuroprosthetic device that provides a sense of sound to a person with moderate to profound sensorineural hearing loss. “Not everyone with hearing impairment can have a cochlear implant, we first do assessments including checking their nerves to see if they are in good condition,” he stressed. According to him, there are some patients, who do not meet the criteria for cochlear implant surgery, instead learning sign language to cope with the daily communication environment is recommended for them. Dr Liyombo further mentioned the causes of hearing problems in adults including working in noisy places including mines and using drugs arbitrarily. “In infants, the problem starts before birth or after birth, some get the problem from maternal infections such as meningitis, that is why mothers during pregnancy are advised to attend the clinic regularly for medical advice,” he said.