Betway, an international online gaming brand, has made another great stride in the development of sports in Tanzania has announced the launch of its sports infrastruc ture renovation project in the country. The first phase of the proj ect involves the renovation of five sports grounds in Dar es Salaam city, including four football grounds and one basketball court. Sea View basketball court – located at Ocean Road street in the Ilala District – was the first to be upgraded. At the launch of the refur bished grounds, Betway organised an event that brought a number of stakeholders together includ ing players, fans, and members of the press. Six basketball teams played games to signal the open ing of the courts, with the win ners awarded prizes including cash and Betway merchandise. Speaking at the event, Betway Tanzania’s Operation Manager, Jimmy Masoe said, “As part of contributing to the growth of Tanzania’s sports sector, we have begun to upgrade various sports structures. We have made considerable upgrades, particu larly to this basketball court, including surface repairs, new rims, stanchions, and overall basketball infrastructure. We’ve also repainted the court with the correct markings and enhanced it to boost the visual appeal of the area.” Masoe said that Betway believes the improvements made to the Sea View court will not only benefit basketball players and aspirants, but also the sur rounding community. “Today’s inauguration marks the beginning of the first phase that will cover five sports grounds in Dar es Salaam. The renovation project targets sta diums that are used often to provide opportunities for athletes and sports authorities to have decent infrastructure for sports activities. At Betway, we believe in community development as part of our core responsibilities, and we will keep supporting the community in all aspects of sports development.” On behalf of the Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF), President Mwenze Fiston con gratulated Betway for the effort, which he believes will have a positive effect on basketball in Tanzania. “It is a tremendous delight for us to see Betway, the world’s premier sports betting company, understand the importance of investing in the growth of basketball in Tanzania. The decision to refurbish the Sea View basketball court is a huge boost to the game and we applaud Betway for their attention. TBF knows that this is only the first part of the project, and we hope to see this happen to many more basketball courts, not only here in Dar es Salaam, but also in other places where basketball courts are few and in poor condition,” Mwenze said. Mwenze added that TBF will continue to work with Betway and other stakeholders to main tain the upgraded infrastructure as part of a move to promote the development of basketball in Tanzania. “We want to reassure Betway that their work will not be in vain. TBF will collaborate with other competent authori ties, such as local government authorities and the Dar es Salaam Basketball Association, to ensure that this sports ground is well maintained.”