PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has called upon Tanzanians to emulate Dr Mwele Malecela splendid performance she demonstrated within and outside the country. Dr Mwele, who was the Director of the Department of Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) at the World Health Organisation (WHO) Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, died in the country last week at the age of 58. President Samia's remarks were delivered by the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa during the farewell bid of the body yesterday at Karimjee Stadium, Dar es Salaam. She said Dr Mwele served the nation with courage and great passion as well as might, adding that her work performance and efficiency made the country to be known internationally. “This is a great role model for public servants and Tanzanians in general as she worked for many years, held various positions and  her ability to work found her rising and becoming one of the Tanzanians, who have worked abroad holding high positions and becoming successful,” said President Samia. In the eulogy, President Samia noted that Dr Mwele’s ability made the nation register a significant international mark in the health industry, promising that on her return to the country, she would squeeze time to go to Dodoma to console the family, and as well wished them comfort during this difficult period. She further said: “The daughter (Dr Mwele) of the former Vice-President and Prime Minister, John Malecela’s death has caused a great loss to nation, and surely she was an important and hardworking woman.” On his part, the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa, in his remarks, said the death of the late Dr Mwele has brought great sorrow in view of her great contribution to the nation. Presiding over the occasion, Zanzibar President Hussein Mwinyi described the late Dr Mwele as a renowned Tanzanian scientist, who volunteered to work for the nation to enable it eradicate the neglected tropical diseases. Dr   Mwinyi said that in her 30 years’ service as a public servant at the   National Medical Research Institute (NIMR), she had a great task of identifying programmes to eradicate the diseases. He said during her term as a public servant, she did a great job of coordinating programmes to eradicate the diseases, citing some as including Dandruff and mumps, stomach worms, schistosomiasis, Trachoma and Tuberculosis. He further said the late Dr Mwele did a great job of serving the nation, hence, urged Tanzanians to evaluate themselves if their services would fill the gap left behind by her. Speaking on his behalf and the family of the retired President of Tanzania, Hussein Mwinyi, he noted that her death was a loss to them and touched every Tanzanian, describing her as a person of the people who spent all her time serving the nation. Quoting religious leaders, Dr Mwinyi urged Tanzanians to learn from what Dr Mwele championed for, recognising further that as a result of her death, there are reminders of her good stories. In addition, he said it is the duty of the people to pray for the late Dr Mwele, as well as her family's perseverance during this difficult time. In addition, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Dr Tulia Ackson, while also consoling the bereaved family of the late Dr Mwele, urged Tanzanians to continue with the good things left behind by her in the interest of the nation and its people. In another development, former Prime Minister, Joseph Warioba described the late Dr Mwele as a very confident woman, who was much loved and that culminated in her decision to run for presidency in 2015.