TANZANIA drivers hope to have a highly challenging rally season in 2022 with only six rounds to decide who deserve the best drivers and navigators’ diadems this year. Still the entire motorsports fraternity believes the year 2022 is designed to stage many dare-devil actions as the six-round season compels drivers and navigators to fiercely compete for the top thrones. “We expect to have the highly competitive races as the number of races has been reduced to six from eight rounds we staged previously,” Nizar Jivani, the President of the Automobile Association of Tanzania (AAT) said during an occasion to award best drivers and navigators who excelled in the 2021 Rally Season. Jivani said still three clubs have applied for tickets to host the Tanzanian round National Rally Championship (NRC) this year, a situation AAT sees as a motivating sign. “Motor rally is one of the greatest entertaining outdoor sports activities, subsequently, we hope motorsport’s followers countrywide will take pleasure in watching drivers in spectacular actions,” Jivani said. As a member of Subaru team, David Matete from Amapiano Crew  and one of the recipients of the awards, said he expects to see a spectacular speeding showdown between Subaru Imprezas and Mitsubishi Evos this year. “With Subaru N12 we had our best season last year after taking the runner up position. Our target is to see our Impreza taking number one position after the end of the sixth round in December this year,” said Matete. The first round of the National Rally Championship(NRC) will be staged in mid- March in Dar es Salaam before Iringa Motor Sports Club hosting the second round in the third weekend of May. The Automobile Association of Tanzania (AAT) will host the third round in the third weekend of July this year. The AAT- governed rally also serves as the Tanzanian round of the African Rally Championship (ARC) which draws top African drivers and navigators on course for the continental rallying title. The fourth round of NRC, according to the calendar will be staged by Mount Usambara Club in the first weekend of September before Arusha Motorsports Club stages the fifth NRC  and the penultimate round in the first weekend of October. The sixth and the final round of NRC will be staged in December this year in Morogoro.