SIMBA gallantly claimed the group D helm following their 1-1 draw with US Gendarmerie National at Stade General Seyni Kountche in Niamey late on Sunday. Simba claimed the group’s pilot seat with 4 points, scoring four goals while conceding two goals. Simba’s leadership was confirmed after the former group’s leaders RS Berkane suffered a 3-1 loss to ASEC Mimosas of Ivory Coast in Abidjan late on Sunday. Still, besides losing their Sunday's game RS Berkane have remained second with 3 points, 5 goals for and allowed the ball behind their net six times. ASEC are now placed third with 3 points, 4 goals for and have conceded 4 goals. Bottom of the group D table are US Gendarmerie National of Niger with a point. Simba went to Niamey parading 3 points garnered in their 3-1 victory over ASEC Mimosas at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. USGN were the first to score early in the 12th minute through Wilfried Gbeuli, the goal lasted until the 84th minute when Simba levelled the score through Bernard Morrison header. Simba made their first attempt in the 4th minute through Peter Banda, who used his right foot to strike completing Shomari Kapombe initiative, but USGN custodian Saidu Hamisu cleared the danger. USGN responded with raids in the 6th , 10th and 12th minutes, but none of the raids resulted into a goal. The first serious danger for USGN was a free-kick they were awarded after Mohamed Hussein fouled Gbeuli Wilfried. Adebayor shot but he was unlucky as his shot hit the woodwork. Adebayor made the second attempt with his leftshot, completing Hassan Boubacar’s set through, but it was brilliantly saved by Simba goalkeeper, Aishi Manula. USGN made the third attempt through Boubacar, whose powerful shot was saved by Manula. After Manula’s brilliant efforts, USGN eventually netted their opener in the 14th minute through Gbeuli Wilfried, who completed Abdel Nasser’s assist. Simba tried to level the score in the 15th minute through Sakho, but his shot went wide. The first half was completed with USGN leading 1-0. USGN got another opportunity in the 61st minute through Abdel Nasser whose shot went a few inches off target. Simba responded in the 62nd minute, when Meddie Kagere completed Kapombe’s pass but he shot wide. USGN made another attempt in the 73rd minute through Boubacar whose shot from the centre of box but went above the crossbar. The opportunity was created by Adebayor who sculptured a set piece to meet Boubacar. Simba levelled the score through Bernard Morrison who completed with a perfect header from the right side of the six-yard box to the top right corner. The move was sculptured by Kapombe. USGN were playing their second game after a 5-3 loss to RS Berkane in the eightgoal thriller. In Abidjan, hosts ASEC Mimosas defeated RS Berkane 3-1 in another group D match. Stephane Aziz Ki scored ASEC Mimosas opener in the 57th minute before Souleymane Coulibaly doubled the score in the 64th minute. The Ivorians scored their third goal in the 70th minute through Karim Konate. RS Berkane netted their consolation goal through Charki El Bahri in the 83rd minute. At the NationaI Stadium in Lusaka, Zambia Egypt’s Pyramids consolidated their hold on top of Group A in the CAF Confederation Cup after picking a vital 2-0 victory to Zambia’s Zanaco yesterday.