THE Public Finance Management Reform Programme (PFMRP) phase V being implemented in the country has started to bear fruits as some councils have reduced dependence on central government funding by 15 per cent. Addressing the public financial management stakeholders here yesterday during the programme implementation committee meeting, the Permanent Secretary in President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG), Prof Riziki Shemdoe said that some councils can now sustain themselves without central government assistance for 25 per cent. He noted that the drop in dependence on central government is due to improved expenditure of revenue collected from their internal sources in the past four years. The development is due to the successful implementation of the programme which is being implemented by the government in collaboration with development partners. The programme is expected to end in June this year. The PFMRP programme is supported by the United Kingdom through the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) with a comprehensive set of public finance reform activities. He said that revenue collections in councils have increased thus reducing dependence on central government from 8 per cent in 2016/2017 to an average of 15 per cent. “Councils’ dependence on central is currently at an average of 85 per cent, although dependence is still high but we have made progress, on city councils the dependence has significantly dropped such as councils in Dar es Salaam region can sustain themselves by 23 per cent and they have not been receiving funds for other charges from the central government,” he said. He further noted that, out of budget expenditure in councils has dropped from 10 per cent in 2016/2017 to two per cent in 2020/2021. Prof Shemdoe further said that, the transfer of budgeted funds from the central government to the Local Government Authority has increased from 60 per cent in 2016/17 to 85 per cent in 2020/21. He further noted that queries from the Controller and Auditor General have decreased while transparency in procurement has improved. “The programme has helped the councils to boost their revenue in various ways including identifying new sources of income and good management of the collected funds,” he said urging the councils across the country to identify new sources of income to boost revenue,” he said. Also, Prof Shemdoe pledged that the government will continue to address the challenges identified during the implementation of the programme across 26 regions of Tanzania. However, the PS commended the role played by stakeholders including the UK Government for their commitment to ensuring the public finance management is in good shape for sustainable development. On his part, the Head of Political Governance Team for the British Consulate in Tanzania, Laurance Wilkes said the UK via FCDO has spent at least 52bn/- most of that used to accomplish the PFMRP’s strategic objectives. “We are so grateful to be part of this partnership because we absolutely see the value that we can play for you, and it fits the spirit of proper work as a donor partner working with the government to increase the revenue” he expressed. PFMRP phase V operates through seven (7) strategic objectives that focus on improving macroeconomic management, efficient resources allocation, timely and accurate budget execution, strengthening and effective oversight of PFM institutions, and improving PFM systems and outcomes in local government.