THE United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has stepped up the fight against gender-based violence (GBV) in the country, by handing over ten motorcycles worth over 51m/- to the Police Force. The support is meant to improve its capacity and prevent the acts of violence against women, girls, children and the elderly. The motorcycles will be deployed in Mara Region including Tarime and Rorya Districts and Manyara Region. Receiving the motorcycles in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro, said the motorcycle will help the Police Force specifically in targeted areas to improve its capacity to raise awareness among the public and in the investigation of GBV related cases. “To a large extent cases related to gender-based violence have dropped due to the widespread public awareness campaign by the government through the Police Gender and Children Desks in collaboration with other stakeholders like the UNFPA,” said IGP Sirro. According to him, the motorcycle will be of great assistance to the Police Officers because they are facing a big challenge in terms of transport in their respective Gender and Children Desks. He observed that the motorcycles will help them to easily carry out their activities, which mostly requires moving from one place to another to raise public awareness on GBV issues and probe the cases. By doing so, he said that people in their respective communities will be able to live in peace and by honouring other people’s dignity. The IGP expressed recognition to UNFPA for the timely support of motorcycles and through the construction of the various gender desks in the country. On her part, the Officer in Charge at UNFPA, Ms Georgette Kyombo, expressed the organ’s commitment to protecting women and girls from harm, abuse, sexual and gender-based violence including harmful practices such as child marriage and female genital mutilation. Ms Kyombo revealed that UNFPA was supporting the government to implement the target set by the National Plans of Action to end Violence against Women and Children. “Through this partnership, we have supported the Police at the national, regional and local levels to improve its capacity to reach out to the survivors of GBV and harmful practices against women, girls, children and the elderly,” noted Ms Kyombo. She pointed out that UNFPA in partnership with the Police have established ten new Police Gender and Children Desks in the mainland, six of the desks are now operational in the districts of Bunda, Butiama and Serengeti in Mara Region and districts of Buhigwe, Manyovu and Uvinza in Kigoma Region. Similarly, three new desks will be launched in Manyara Region and the construction of another facility is underway in Msalala District in Shinyanga.