EXIM Bank has handed over a brand new Toyota Vanguard car to the Iringa based organization-Work of Mary (Focolare Movement Tanzania) after emerging a winner of the bank’s mega promotion dubbed ‘Weka MkwanjaTukutoe’ aimed at encouraging a ‘saving culture’. The Exim Bank’s Head of Retail, Mr Andrew Lyimo said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the winner was one of the bank’s customers that deposited 500,000/- and onwards, hence entered directly into the mega draw and scooped the grand prize. “Apart from the grand prize winner, 18 others were able to win a cash prize of 1m/- each in various draws done electronically,” said Lyimo. He said the promotion not only encouraged customers to save with the bank responsibly but also emphasized saving their hard-earned income in a safe place that is in a bank and return rewarded them significantly for their efforts. “This campaign was one of the ways for Exim Bank to promote a saving culture in the country to increase productivity for national development,” he noted. Mr Lyimo said the bank has managed to attract more than 6,000 new customers during the three month exercise, and achieved its goal of increasing customer deposits and savings by 110 per cent. Speaking at the event, the representative of the Work of Mary (Focolare Movement Tanzania) Ms Christina Maria Da Silva thanked Exim Bank for the car prize, noting that the secret behind the success was just saving with the financial institution. “We are delighted to receive this gift from Exim Bank. Furthermore, we have been pleased with the services we receive from the bank through the Iringa branch. We also encourage fellow Tanzanians to open accounts through Exim Bank for better banking services that are simplified through digital systems,” she pointed out. On his part, the bank’s head of Marketing and Communications, Mr Stanley Kafu congratulated all the winners of the campaign and equally urged other customers to keep on experiencing the bank’s services while embracing other similar campaigns through the bank.