ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has directed government executives to be creative and come up with an alternative way of raising fund outside the government budget in order to successfully implement its programmes. President Mwinyi issued the directives on Friday at the opening of a priority planning training organised by Tony Blair Institute and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Participants of the four-day training included permanent secretaries, deputy secretaries and directors on planning and implementation of priority programmes and projects. He said government operations are plagued with bureaucracy, businesses usual syndrome and outdated laws which does not correspond with the current needs. President Mwinyi said that he is not satisfied with execution of government plans whose implementation needs to be fast tracked and monitored. “For several times I have instructed respective institutions to expedite the review of the laws and take steps to amend it,” he said. Dr Mwinyi added that some executives are failing to implement development plans because they do not have knowledge about projects ‘write-ups’ even in projects funded by international organisations as a result they rely on government budget. He noted that to date when the government revenue collections have dropped significantly due to the effects of Covid-19 pandemic leaders of institutions have been complaining for not being provided with funds by the government instead of coming up with alternative way of raising funds. President Mwinyi noted that various challenges in the implementation of government plans have made him to establish a delivery unit which is responsible for monitoring and implementation of development plans. “We must have strategies and techniques of planning and choosing together basing on the resources available,” he said. He said the implementation of the plans needs strong techniques by giving priority basing on the resources and equipment available. Dr Mwinyi commended Tony Blair Institution for organising such an important training to go through the plans. He further said that development plans are well stipulated in Chama Cha Mapinduzi Election Manifesto of 2020- 2025, Zanzibar Development Plan 2021-2026, Development Vision 2050, pledges by government top leaders and national development plans. Dr Mwinyi expressed gratitude to Tony Blair Institution and UNDP for facilitating the important training, calling upon participants to make use of the knowledge acquired for making good plans and proper way of implementing them. The Minister of State, Office of the PresidentConstitution, Legal Affairs, Public Service and Good Governance, Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman, said the training is of great importance to the executives particularly planners and implementers “So it is important to follow-up carefully the training because it is of great benefit to the country.” Earlier at the opening, the UNDP Representative in the country Ms Christine Musisi said they were pleased with the efforts to strengthen unity and stability in the isles, promoting accountability and integrity in the government which is key to success in meeting development goals. She pointed out that better planning and good governance may be regarded as the pillars of development and economic growth that also leads to increase employment for the youth, “UNDP is ready to work with the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar focusing on the basic priorities of infrastructure as well as tourism and economic growth that will involve women,” she noted. Tony Blair Institutional Representative Rornard Osumbar also said the aim of the training was to enable the eighth phase government of Zanzibar to achieve its goals through its own programmes, especially in providing better services to the people. They promised to use the experts they have worked with in various countries including Kenya, Ethiopia, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and other countries to see that these priorities are met and the people of Zanzibar make progress. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of State for the President’s Office (Planning and Economy) Dr Juma Maliki Akili said the meeting was aimed at creating and highlighting priorities based on the development plans by involving all senior government officials. Dr Akili said “This is an important meeting that will set and remind about the Government’s priorities for development for the people of Zanzibar, by involving development partners who will help to better implement those plans.”