THE government has commended the efforts made by Faidika Microfinance Tanzania for issuing loans to public and private sectors aiming to empower people economically. The statement was issued by the Director of Financial Management Information System in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr John Sausi during the launch of LetsGo Digital Mall, another milestone in the inclusive finance provider’s transformation strategy. Mr Sausi said that the innovation launched by Faidika Microfinance will benefit Tanzanians since more than 55 million people use digital money transactions as per the Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA). “This is the milestone in digital money transaction in the country. The government has been influenced by the innovation and believes will make the Tanzanian change their habit and uses them to get various services because it is convenient. This is success and a big revolution in financial services,” said Mr Sausi on behalf of Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba in Dar es Dar es Salaam, yesterday. For his part, Faidika Microfinance Tanzania Managing Director Baraka Munisi said that the LetsGo Digital Mall is an interactive platform that customers can access via their mobile phones, online or via USSD. Mr Munisi said the LetsGo Digital Mall enables existing customers to apply for new or top-up loans, access account details, statements and update personal information. “As the platform evolves, the LetsGO Digital Mall will serve as an interactive access catalyst, extending customers’ reach to an array of options and choices in financial and lifestyle services, including digital payments, savings solutions, rewards, personal insurance, shopping, and cross-border trading as well as educational and personal empowerment portals,” said Mr Munisi. He explained that the LetsGo Digital Mall is a customer-centric, user-friendly platform that brings the brand’s LetsGO Nation philosophy to life by delivering the gift of personal time to pursue individual priorities as customers no longer have to wait or visit a branch to apply for products or access their accounts. “Our LetsGO Digital Mall is an ideal platform to unlock Faidika Microfinance Tanzania’s current and future potential and through this digital platform, we are enhancing customer experience through easier access, improving turnaround times through end-to-end processing technology, and increasing customer choice by enabling us to launch more products, sooner,” he added. Faidika Microfinance Board Chairman Adam Mayingu added, “Faidika Microfinance remains committed to investing in our operations, training and upskilling our people in agile methodologies and digital skills to support the growth and expansion of our local business. Digitization not only increases Faidika Microfinance’s reach in terms of products and channels but also supports and enhances standards in reporting, processing, risk management and governance.” ‘LetsGo’ is a new brand in Faidika Microfinance Tanzania’s brand stable, resonating and reiterating the Group’s regional transformation strategy and vision to build a world-class, future-fit organization that supports individuals and micro and small entrepreneurs to achieve their goals and aspirations.