YOUNG Africans have been applauded for introducing electronic membership cards saying the development will play a big role in helping the club run its affairs smoothly. Speaker of the National Assembly, Tulia Ackson said this on Friday when she graced a brief ceremony of introducing the cards to some members of parliament in Dodoma. She added that the move will help to spur the club’s intention to fully operate by itself thereby moving away from total dependency of individuals’ economic support. Meanwhile, Yanga have scaled up preparations ahead of their tricky NBC Premier League fixture against Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in Morogoro on Wednesday. The two sides meet for the first time this season in a match to wind up the first round of the season as it will be the 15th game for both of them hence; the battle for three points is likely to be tense. Speaking in Dar es Salaam recentlone-day break and all players have already resumed normal training programmes ahead of the away game. “The preparations are going on smoothly concurrenwith the follow up match against Kagera Sugar as such; players are making sure that they are absorbing well whatever is being imparted to them,” Bumbuli said. According to him, they expect to leave the city on Sunday for Morogoro and conduct training at Jamhuri Stadium before travelling to Manungu Complex on the match’s day (Wednesday). “Yanga is a big club as such; we cannot go direct to Manungu because the area itself is very small that is why we are set to pitch a brief camp in Morogoro town until Wednesday. While in Morogoro, the exercise of electronically registering our members will continue,” he said. He added: “Aside from our mission to win the league title this season, we are also accomplishing all the components required for us to be fully transformed because this is also very important to the success of the club.” He then expressed their happiness upon the return to action of right-back Juma Shaban whose three- match suspension is over hence he is eligible to play against Mtibwa Sugar as per recommendation of the technical bench. For Mtibwa Sugar, their Information Officer Thobias Kifaru said they are too, progressing well with drills to take on Yanga and ensure that they bag all three points. “We are grateful that all our remaining home matches will be played here (Manungu Complex) and we want to ensure that no team escapes this venue without being scratched,” he said. According to the standings, Yanga lead the 16-team table with 36 points from 14 matches while Mtibwa Sugar are placed on 14th slot with 12 points after playing 14 games. It has been a tough ride so far for the Manungu based outfits as they have just won two matches, losing six and drawing six encounters in the process.