The construction of Karema Port at Lake Tanganyika in the Katavi Region is likely to miss the deadline with only two weeks remaining at hand, despite the project attaining 66 per cent in implementation. The delay of the port at Tanganyika district irked the Katavi Regional Commissioner, Ms Mwanamvua Mrindoko, who issued a five-day ultimatum to Tanzania Port Authority (TPA) to arrive at the site and address the challenges making the project stall. "It is obvious that TPA failed to closely supervise the project and fulfill responsibilities of repairing key construction equipment as per the contractual agreement. “...Therefore they have five days to make sure they are here to address these challenges, as the project is scheduled for completion and handed over on March 06, less than three weeks," Ms Mwanamvua said while inspecting the project tour. During the tour, the RC found out that out of three key construction machines only one is operational while two have experienced mechanical fault causing the project to stall. Upon completion, the terminal will have a berth length of 150 meters with the capacity to accommodate ships with a length of 75 meters. The port is a strategic terminal meant to stimulate the movement of goods, people and services and boost cross-trade between Tanzania and parts of the Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Zambia and Burundi across Lake Tanganyika. Lake Tanganyika Ports' Acting Manager, Manga Gasaya said the Chinese contractor, Xiamen Ongoing Construction Group Company has been contracted to construct the terminal at 48bn/-. “The implementation of the project scheduled to take 24 months when construction kicked off in October 2019 and scheduled for accomplishment March 06, this year" he emphasized. Mr Gasaya listed several challenges that slowed down the construction of the project including the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic which caused the delay of building materials to the terminal. "Also the rising of water levels on Lake Tanganyika and 100 kilometres of rough road from Mpanda to the terminal" added Gasaya. He further elaborated that the execution works of the project have so far reached 66 per cent at the cost of over 19.4bn/- which is the equivalent to 40.6 per cent of the fund paid to the main contractor Xiamen Group. The port will also be connected to the railway from Mpanda Township and linked it with Tanga and Dar es Salaam ports," he noted.