PARLIAMENTARY Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Water has proposed taking to the Parliament the Cooperative Societies Policy of 2002 and its Act of 2013 for amendments with the aim of strengthening them. In line with this, the committee further suggested for amendments of the Co-operative Audit and Supervision Corporation-(COASCO) Act of 2005. This was noted in the Parliament on Monday during tabling of the report for the implementation of businesses of the committee focusing on the past one year. Its chairperson, Dr Christine Ishengoma, also said systems and criteria for getting members of the boards of the cooperatives and institutions have to be strengthened. In its report, the committee suggested for the increased scope of cooperative associations so that they engage in establishment of industries and other projects. "Achievements of cooperative societies to have capacity of owning big, middle and small industries is currently voluntary for members to meet their social, and economic needs. The law has to have a provision that would give powers to registrar to supervise or advise on how to run joint projects, particularly companies that the cooperatives have huge shares, in a bid to control misuse of resources. Dr Ishengoma further noted that it provision of education and sustainable training to members and executives of the cooperatives should be made mandatory. "There is a need to put in place and implement a system of preparing Unified Cooperative Management Services System in order to ensure that the cooperatives are run and supervised by executives, who have skills on cooperatives,” she pointed out. The committee also spoke on jobs’ creation for the youth in agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors, especially by increasing investment in the sectors. She further noted that the committee expects CCM to create not less than 8 million employments by 2025 in its manifesto, hence, recommends that the government stimulates economic growth, especially in the industrial sector which uses agricultural, livestock and fisheries produce as raw materials. Equally, it proposed to the government to increase budget allocation to the sector to ensure availability of funds for the produce so that the goals are realized. …………..Ends.......................................... Enhance disaster management to grassroots, govt urged CONSTITUTION and Legal Affairs Parliamentary Committee has recommended to the government to consider enhancing disaster management in the country. Speaking in the Parliament on Monday, the committee's chairperson, Dr Joseph Mhagama said the government should make disaster management as part of its primary education to the public and prepare sustainable strategy on disaster control for Zanzibar, since it is part of the union matter. He said that disaster management committees and council authorities should be empowered regularly so that they manage disasters, when occur, especially by introducing public education program to create awareness on how to control them before and after. Equally, Dr Mhagama noted that the committee proposed amendment of the law to make legislators become members of disaster committees in district and regional levels. He further said that, there is a need for introducing a special fund under the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) for the management and control of disasters. Commenting on implementation of disaster management Act of 2004, he said the committee noticed poor understanding and participation of citizens in councils countrywide in the system of management and controlling disasters at ward, division and district level contrary to the law requirement. The committee further looked at the implementation of an Act for Health and Safety at workplace and established that one of challenges facing the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) was shortage of staff. It recommended that the Prime Minister's Office in collaboration with President's Office (Public Service) should address the problem of shortage of employees at the OSHA level in a move to increase efficiency. Additionally, the committee members said that, the authority should come up with a strategic plan that partners with the informal sector in identifying issues of health and safety at workplaces. It noted again, that implementation of the strategic plan must focus on bringing efficiency that would lead to recognizing that particular sector under the OSHA.