AFTER scoring a vital away goal, Simba’s playmaker Bernard Morrison said the proper timing of a corner kick delivered by Shomari Kapombe worked a miracle against the solid USGN wall in Niamey. The country’s solo envoys in CAF Interclub games made a strong statement after picking a hard-earned 1-1 draw against USGN of Niger over the weekend to take charge of Group D of the CAF Confederation Cup with four points. The Msimbazi Street Reds flattened the curve in the 84th minute of a tense match, which enabled their objective to grab at least four points from their two back to back away games achievable. As it stands in Group D, Simba are the only side enjoying a hundred per cent performance as they have not lost a game from their two matches while the rest have tasted the bitter pill. “It was all about proper timing. At that point, most players, including Kapombe were tired as such, I just had to read the situation, and the ball came directly to me,” said Morrison after navigating the ship to safety. His trainer Pablo Franco lauded the contribution made by the substitutes saying it was a tremendous value for them to escape the venue unhurt. He added that it pleased him; they became the first team in the group to get an away point, a thing he described as significant to them. Also, the Spanish coach disclosed that despite not starting the game with the energy and ambition he would have liked, he insisted that the pitch and hot weather were a setback to his players on the day. “It was difficult to breathe... I was not running, but I could feel how difficult the situation was for the players on the pitch. However, in the second half, we adjusted our style a bit to create scoring chances and get something from the match,” he said. In his remarks, Simba’s midfielder Clatous Chama described the draw as a hopeful outcome while calling on his teammates to continue displaying a spirited performance in all their upcoming fixtures. In retrospect, Msimbazi Street Red’s chairman Salim Abdallah said he will convince the club’s investor Mohamed Dewji ‘Mo’ to break the bank and sign USGN Victorien Adebayor, who was a thorn in flesh for Simba on the day. “We have all seen him, and he is a good player. But, of course, in the past, I talked with his agent who said he has been signed by a Denmark club and has been loaned here (USGN). “Based on his potential, he does not deserve to play in Europe, but rather, he needs to play at Simba. He also scored two goals in their 5-3 defeat to RSB Berkane. Therefore, I will try to convince ‘Mo’ to break the bank and win his signature,” said Abdallah. Next, Simba will face RS Berkane on Sunday in Morocco as the latter will be trying to recover after losing their Sunday’s match 3-1 to ASEC Mimosas.