THE government has signed two loan agreements with the World Bank amounting to US 650 million dollars (equivalent to 1.501tri/-) for financing implementation of the Boost Primary Student Learning Project (BOOST) and Land Tenure Improvement Project (LTIP). Speaking during the signing ceremony of the agreements in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Emmanuel Tutuba, said a total of 500 million US dollars (about 1.16tri/-) will be allocated for BOOST while US 150 million dollars (about 347bn/-) will be allotted for LTIP. Mr Tutuba said the projects under the agreements are in line with the Third National Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP-III) 2021/22–2025/26 and part of a broad agenda of the sixth phase government under the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan. “The agenda seeks to build a competitive and industrial economy for human development through various interventions. These include improving and incorporating inclusive teaching and learning environments in the pre-primary and primary level, improve teachers’ competency at preprimary and primary levels, promote and support use of ICT (Information and Communication Technology) in teaching and learning,” he stated. The projects will as well promote and facilitate planning, surveying and titling of land parcels for investment and human settlement, upgrade and scale up an Integrated Land Management Information System and promote the use of ICT in land surveying and titling. Mr Tutuba explained further that the BOOST Project intends to improve equitable access to quality learning in pre-primary and primary education in mainland Tanzania. “Successful implementation of the project among others will result in enormous impact in our education sector including construction of 12,000 classrooms with their respective associated facilities. “It will also facilitate rolling out of ICT packages to 800 hub schools and teacher resource centers and increase in pre-primary and primary gross enrollment ratio,” he elaborated. The PS noted on the other hand that the Land Tenure Improvement Project has the objective of strengthening the national land administration system and increasing tenure security in selected areas for both men and women. The project is expected to benefit the country through increased tenure security to 40 selected districts by issuance of Certificates of Customary Right of Occupancy (CCROs) and Certificates of Right of Occupancy (CROs). It will also facilitate issuance of Residential Licenses, increase efficiency in land information management through interventions and scaling up of the Integrated Land Management Information System (ILMIS) and production of base-maps. According to the PS, the loan agreements between the government of Tanzania and the Bretton Woods institution will add into the existing World Bank’s portfolio for national projects in Tanzania to 6.15 billion US dollars. “Currently, we are working to finalise another set of pipeline projects that will draw resources from the balance allocation of International Development Association (IDA) 19 funding cycle and which may also secure additional resources from the Bank if our allocation would not be sufficient,” he said. Mr Tutuba assured the World Bank Country Director for Tanzania, Ms Mara Warwick, that the government of Tanzania is committed to continue working closely with the bank to strengthen existing development cooperation. “With a strong relationship, we shall be able to achieve even more. Be reassured that the government of Tanzania will take all necessary measures to ensure successful implementation of these projects and achievement of their respective development objectives,” Mr Tutuba told Ms Warwick. Speaking at the event, Ms Warwick said the BOOST project will help to directly address constraints in the education sector by making Tanzania primary schools safer, more inclusive and child friendly. “We expect that more than 12 million children in mainland Tanzania will benefit from this program,” Ms Warwick said. The World Bank Country Director said the BOOST project will also cater for an education system that supports all children including the most marginalized.