PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has been praised for successfully branding Tanzania as among the most attractive investment destinations in the world during her recent tour in France and Belgium. According to analysts and business gurus, the move by President Samia to continue re-opening Tanzania to the international world through location marketing has attracted prospective investors from the two nations, as the first French business community delegation is expected to arrive soon. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ in a telephone interview, an Economist and Researcher at Massa Institute of Social Sciences Research, Dr Muhajir Kachwamba, lauded President Samia for welcoming investors from France and Belgium, assuring them of a reliable and conducive environment for doing business. Ms Samia urged investors from Europe to come to Tanzania to explore world-class opportunities in various areas including livestock, agriculture, energy, mining and other sectors. “The president has branded the country well in her visits by managing to convince the international and business community that Tanzania is a potential destination for investment. The French mission expected to jet in the country in the coming weeks is a clear manifestation of the president’s efforts,” said Dr Kachwamba. He pointed out that the world order fosters economic diplomacy, requiring countries to operate in the same order, stressing that the president’s working visit abroad has helped to widen Tanzania’s ties with other nations. Similarly, grants amounting to 425 million Euros (about 1.15tri/-) and concessional loans secured will enable capital injection into the economy, thereby benefiting the whole country, he added. Dr Kachwamba was equally optimistic that the over 250 million Euros concessional loan and grant for the financing of agriculture and the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project phase 5 in Dar es Salaam, will help ease transport and service delivery in the country. He said the over 150 billion Euros which have been allocated for African countries during the European Union and African Union (AU-EU) Summit is going to strengthen transport services within the country. An economist-cum-banker, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, also observed that access to the funds will enable the country to timely complete various development projects. “Securing the 425 million Euros grant, which is equivalent to 1.15tri/-, is an important policy instrument for EU among its innumerable schedules with Tanzania, and indeed with President Samia opening up the country once again has been and will be strategically positioned to receive more development funds, not only from European Commission but also from private sector. French investors are pleased with on-going reform taking place to bring Tanzania into the world class business table,” noted Dr Shayo. “With the pace of the ongoing reforms, France with 40 existing projects worth 73.4 million US dollars that has roughly generated more than 1,885 jobs in the country would certainly double. With such projects and more to come, Tanzania will benefit from other multiplier effects that I believe will cover a wide array of fields, such as agriculture, education, transportation, energy, communications, and health including assistance to support Covid-19 treatment manufacturing factory that could also be beneficial to our neighbouring countries,” he added. For his part, renowned Business Tycoon, Mr Azim Dewji lauded President Samia for carrying out the official visit abroad, pointing out that the trip meant a lot to the development of the country. “The president’s trip is rewarding with a flow of investments in offing, something which is very good for the development of the country. When she goes out and requests for a loan and it’s granted, such reflects the trust donors have for our country,” stated Mr Dewji. Management Consultant and Economics Researcher, Mr Joshua Mwakalikamo, was of the view that the president’s tour is like an equation that has two sides; on one side of the equation is that it has attracted such a huge number of resources, and the other side of the equation is its contribution to the development outputs and outcomes. He cited the expected outputs including completed project activities at different levels which can be seen or felt by the citizens. “If citizens can see project activities are being completed, they will embrace the grants,” he said, noting that citizens need to have a positive perceived long-term effect, in particular reduction of extreme poverty. On the other hand, he cautioned that use of the secured grants will only be realised if best practices of external assistance are being observed. For instance, he said, the government must comply with effective public financial management practices including but not limited to accountability, transparency, timely use of the resources and follow public priorities. Economics lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Prof Humphrey Moshi, maintained that the grants and concessional loan injection amidst the Covid-19 outbreak signals a quick recovery in the economy of the country. He applauded President Samia for carrying out the trip which has come with immense achievement, calling on the public to give the current administration time to arrive at the anticipated development.