THE government has committed to throw full weight to support the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) to establish a new printing plant as well as improving the working conditions for staff of the state-owned company. This was revealed in Dar es Salaam on Monday during a visit by the Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye, at the company’s premises along Mandela Expressway. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan has issued specific directives for improvement of TSN and TBC (Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation). It is my hope that you will continue doing the good job as you have been doing,” the minister stated. Mr Nnauye commended TSN for adhering to professionalism, which has in turn put up respect for the institution, the government and the country as a whole. “Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you for the good work. Every one of you has an obligation to take TSN to new heights,” the minister told employees of the company. The minister further applauded TSN for being a training ground for media professionals, some of whom have been transferred to government institutions. “The president recognizes your contribution in building the country despite the challenges you have been going through. We shall continue to use TSN to nurture new talents,” the minister told the workers. At the same occasion, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology, Dr Jim Yonazi, said the new printing plant will enable TSN to generate additional income within the country and the East African region. “There is vast business opportunity for TSN in the East African region and the president has shown her commitment to enable the company to establish a new printing plant,” Dr Yonazi remarked. The PS said the company ought to expand its presence by establishing news bureaus across the East African region. “TSN should be used to promote trade and the Kiswahili language. Tanzania should be the centre for Swahili learning in the region,” he noted. Speaking earlier, the Acting Managing Editor of TSN, Ms Tuma Abdallah, said the company will continue to act as a link between the government and citizens. Ms Tuma informed the minister that plans are underway for transformation of the company aimed at improving efficiency. “We have put in place a three-year business plan which is intended to restructure the company for improved efficiency,” she said. As part of efforts to improve its revenues, the company has been conducting regional business forums, media consultancy and printing of various documents, Ms Tuma stated. She said the company has as well-established publication of East African region editions which is aimed at promoting regional integration.  