THE condition of one of 12 sailors, who cheated death by a whisker after a Burundian cargo ship christened MV Mbayamwezi capsized on Lake Tanganyika, is described to be critical, according to medical expert. The MV Mbayamwezi, with capacity tocarry 1,800 tonnes of cargo,is owned by Red Marine Company based in Burudi.The vessel capsized at Kabwe Ward in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region on February 17th this year. All 12 sailors were rescued after spending more than 12 hours on water. On his part, Kirando Health Center, Medical in Charge Officer,Dr Benedict Tilamasi admitted to have received 12 sailors at the health facility for treatment. “When we received them here the conditions of all of them was critical but after receiving first aid treatment they improved except one of them whose condition is still unstable,” added the medic. Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC) Mr William Mwampaghale said plans are underway to return sailors whose conditions have improved to neighbouring Burundi. He further said the marine accident occurred on Thursday at around 11:00 am at Kabwe Ward in Nkasi District, saying among the survivors six are from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) while five are Burundians and a Tanzanian. Recounting about the ordeal, the RPC explained that all eleven sailors were rescued by Tanzania People's Defence Force (TPDF) soldiers, marine police and fishermen. “After being rescued all survivors were rushed to Kirando Health Centrer along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District for treatment,” added the RPC Mr Mwampaghale narrated that the ill-fated  Burundian ship-MV Mbayamwezi- with registration numbers BY 0074 property of Rafiki Ibrahim was sailing from Mpulungu Township in neighbouring Zambia to Burundi. "MV Mbayamwezi started its marine journey on February 16, this year from Mpulungu Township in neighbouring Zambia to Burundi carrying 1,700 tonnes raw materials for manufacturing cement. "Preliminary investigations show that MV Mbayamwezioverturned after being hit by strong winds,” noted the RPC. MV Mbayamwezi Captain, Ramadhan Katambo Morris said the ship whose capacity is to carry 1,800 tonnes of cargo, had carried 1,700 tonnes of cargo before it capsized. "After the MV Mbayamwezi capsized, I was the first sailor to get out; we had lifesaving jackets which enable us to survive on rough lake for 24 hours .... I shouted for help ... a group of fishermen rescued some of us,” explained Captain of MV Mbayamwezi.