WHEN one gets into the underprivileged home of a-fiveyear old Godfrey Gaudin, immediately after greetings exchange, the little boy requests to be taken to school. Secondly, the boy requests someone to buy him pairs of socks to cover his legs, which got damaged as he drags himself on the ground to join his fellows for kid players. The boy is able to perfectly count number one to 20 and begging some stationery, mostly exercise books and pencils, for writing practices. Historically, Godfrey came out from his mother’s womb with the open back, a problem specialty known as ‘spina bifida’. He was treated at the Bugando Lake Zone Referral Hospital and got recovered, but never independently walked, according to her mother, Ms Beatrice Cosmas. “He also unknowingly goes for urination and excretion. The doctors told me that everything will be right and asked me to attend clinic sessions on a weekly basis, but I failed due to my limited financial resources,” narrated the mother during the campaign to identify people with disabilities in Kilimahewa street, Ilemela district of Mwanza region. The Campaign that kicked-off last week was initiated by Kilimahewa Local Government in collaboration with the Mwanza-based ‘Nitetee Foundation’, which deals with especially females living in poor environments. Additionally, Godfrey’s toes have been got rotten and disappearing as he drags himself on the ground, remained with a total only four (toes), two on each leg. At the same time, Godfrey suffers from serious wounds on his private parts as he usually goes for excretion in absence of her mother while nobody else is at home to help him. The youngest boy should wait until the mother comes back from vegetables vending, to clean him. As a result, the wastes burn the parts and create wounds, which produce the pus-like liquid, of which anybody can notice even if the child is dressed. Despite the situation, the little boy kept on requesting to be taken to school as he wants to become the teacher. Asked on to why Godfrey hasn’t been registered for schooling, the mother responded that the boy needs to be taken only at schools for special needs children, of which she cannot afford in anyway. It is because she lonely parenting the four children after his husband ran away, under the ground that he got tired to take care of such a disabled child, according to Ms Cosmas. The mother begs for help to take the boy to school, medical support as well as an instrument for walking practices. “My son really wants to go to school as he has been asking his fellow schooling children to teach him the numeracy, a reason why he is able to mention some numbers,” affirmed the mother. The Director for Nitetee Foundation, Ms Flora Lauwo promised to support his medical services, called up on more Good Samaritans to back up her efforts, especially taking the boy to school. She at the same time asked members of the public to stop keeping indoors the people with disabilities, as the government and stakeholders usually fight, promote and strengthen the equality in the society. She also urged the government to set up serious punishments against fathers who abandon especially their disabled children. “I wish I could take this little boy to my parenting center. Unfortunately, we are accommodating only females. However, we will see how we can help, including communicating to other stakeholders,” he said. Kilimahewa Street Chairperson, Mr Amin Fataki, supported the motion, saying people with disabilities deserve all human rights like anybody in the society. Children with schooling age are prioritized in the campaign, to make sure they have such an important educational right, among others, according to the Chairperson. “And the campaign is endless as we have come across that some families still keep indoors the people with disabilities. These people have to be identified so as to benefit with all social services,” he said. The campaign team members, also visited the home of the disabled Geofrey Godwin, whose faces looks like of little boy, but his actual age is about 19 years, according to his mother, Ms Anchira Julian. The man has never get seated, as a result, his body organs, mostly legs and arms get delicate, bend and some even got broken. Wherever is touched, the adolescent boy screams, signifying the pains due to delicacy of his body organs. As it is the case for the little boy Godfrey, the father of Geofrey also ran away, leaving the mother taking care of the boy in loneliness. “What costs me a lot is diapers as my son use not less than five pieces a day,” she said, begging also a blending machine since the son eats only the porridge-like meals. She also requested Good Samaritans to help her paying the room renting fee, which is 30,000/- per month. The mother’s income is unpredictable due to limited number of her clothe tailoring clients. The Limited number might be due to lack of the special office as she cannot move anywhere, leaving the boy alone in such a small renting room. Her renting home is therefore serving as bed and sitting room as well as an office. “I roughly earn 5,000/-, but not on daily a basis because few people do know my profession. The amount is too small as I have to pay for the room, water and electricity bills as well as buy some important needs for my family,” she said.