KAIRUKI Hospital has organized a free medical camp to be held for two days  as part of the  commemoration of the founder of Kairuki Health and Education Network (KHEN), the late Professor   Hubert Kairuki. The two days medical camp organized in collaboration with Hubert Kairuki Memorial University (HKMU)   commenced yesterday and will be concluded today at Kairuki Polyclinic  at Mbezi Luis Magufuli Terminal. Professor Kairuki who died 23 years ago was born in 1940 and died on 6.2. 1999 and every year Kairuki Hospital and HKMU organize free medical camp to commemorate and remember him for his contribution in education and health sector. Director of Kairuki Hospitali, Asser Mchomvu   mentioned some services that will be provided during the medical camp as breast cancer diagnosis, prostate cancer diagnosis by using modern technology. He mentioned other services as eye diagnosis especially to bus drivers, high blood pressure, diabetes, weight and there would be also blood donation in collaboration with Damu Salama Department. He said during the camp also there will be vaccination for the Covid 19. Speaking about eye diagnosis, he said they intend to diagnose bus drivers  because of the nature of their job because they carry many lives of people daily. “We would like to see many drivers come during the camp so that they can get assurance of their eyes. Despite that we will diagnose all the people who will come but specifically drivers are our target due to the nature of their responsibilities,” he said “Apart from this free services. On Sunday 6 which is the climax there would be launching of Kairuki Polyclinic in the Magufuli Terminal and we decided to go there so that surrounding communities can be able to get health services close to them,” he said. Mchomvu said there will be also charity walk by KHEN staff and students from Goba kwa Robert up to Magufuli Bus Terminal. Meanwhile, Mchomvu said between  Mach and April this year there would be launching of  center that deals with In Vitro-Fertilization, IVF in Bunju A Mianzini and Medicine Manufacturing Kibaha Zegereni Industrial area.