THE Rotary Club of Bahari Dar es Salaam yesterday conducted a successful 11th Annual Charity Golf Tournament aimed at uplifting learning environment of Mtakuja Beach Secondary School in the city. The event held at Gymkhana Club, targeted to generate 40m/- to be channeled for improving teaching and learning environment at the school as one way to give back to the community. Speaking at the occasion, Rotary Club of Bahari President Rotarian Carvalho said through improving the environment at the school, the initiative will result to lower high school drop-out rates, reduce spread of diseases and above all, enhance general performance of students. He added by engaging and working together, the school can outshine others in the region and become a model for effective partnership with the community. “Through partnership with different business stakeholders, we are going to rehabilitate the school’s water and sanitation systems thereby reducing students’ exposure to waterborne diseases. Installing a healthy water system in schools creates a positive cycle which in turn improves enrolment, attendance and academic performance,” he said. Additionally, Carvalho revealed that in the past ten annual golf tournaments, they managed to raise over 300m/- which was diverted to accomplish many things especially supporting the underprivileged people. On her part, NBC Marketing Manager Alina Kimaryo said they have been partnering with the Rotary Club of Bahari Dar es Salaam to facilitate their intention of uplifting learning and teaching environment of different schools saying by doing that, students will be acquiring education comfortably. “Let me take this opportunity to urge Tanzanians to engage in various sport disciplines as one way to promote their health and as NBC, we highly value sports that is why we are key sponsors of the NBC Premier League,” she said. This year’s event was sponsored by Allmol Freight Services Ltd, ASAS Group of Companies, Axieva Africa, Bank of India (T) Ltd, Bankable (T) Ltd, Clear Services Ltd, Coral Beach Hotel, Freight Forwarders Tanzania, Heritage Insurance Co Tanzania, I-Print Ltd, J. H. Minet & Co Tanzania Ltd and  Jamana Printers Ltd. Others are Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania, NAS Tyre Service, NBC Ltd, Neelkanth Salt Ltd, Palm Beach Casino, SBS Tanzania Ltd, Soft-Tech Consultants Ltd, Tarmal Industries Ltd, Toyota Tanzania Ltd and Tridea Cosmetics Ltd.