PARENTS in Rukwa Region have been challenged to invest in their teen daughters’ education and their well-being rather than marrying them off forcefully in exchange for dowries. The call was issued by clerics during a one-day workshop held recently in Namanyere Township in Nkasi District. Similar workshop was held at Laela and Matai Townships in Sumbawanga and Kalambo district councils. The workshop aims at empowering religious leaders to address adolescent sexual and reproductive health rights at their respective communities through faith based. The workshop was coordinated by a youth lead organization--- Youth through Sports Tanzania--- YES TZ. Plan International Tanzania is implementing a five year - project (2020-2025) dubbed “Girls Get Equal Integrated Approach to Ending Early Pregnancies and Forced Marriages” in Rukwa Region. The project is being implemented in partnership between Plan International Tanzania and Rukwa Sustainable Organization... RUSUDEO, People’s Development Forums - PDF, RAFIKI SDO and YES TZ funding by Norwegian Agency for Development- Framework (NORAD). Sheikh Maliki Mwananyema from Miyombo ward in the District said that marrying off teen girls robs them of their fundamental rights of health, dignity, life, education and physical integrity. “Marrying teen girls is one of the harmful practices which can subsequently curtail their educational and employment prospects.... You can’t end poverty if you don’t end teenage forced marriage and early pregnancy...girls are viewed as a source of wealth... if communities strive to achieve gender equality they should invest in girls’ education and their wellbeing” he noted. Pentecostal Church - EAGT, Pastor Kadius Sangu said she is against teenage forced marriage describing it as a harmful practice that robs them of their fundamental rights.” “While sex with underage girls has been criminalized, poor parents often clandestinely marry off their underage daughters for money. Early marriage practices are rooted in societal attitudes that regarded women and girls as inferior to both men and boys “added Roman Catholic Church Catechist,Mr Leonsi Sangu. Equally he links forced marriages to patriarchal social norms and traditions that oppress women and girls. Initially YES - TZ’s Director, Mr Kenneth Simbaya said when parents are investing in their teen daughters ‘ education they practically empower them with one of the powerful drivers of sustainable development and agent of change. “Unfortunately, some families in Rukwa Region are forcefully marrying off their daughters in quest of getting dowries,” said Mr Simbaya. However, he explained that there’s always a second chance to correct wrong doings of embracing such harmful norms and practices in societies. Tanzania Demographic Health and Malaria Indicators Survey (TDHMIS 2015- 2016) revealed that 29 per cent of girls between 15 and 19 years old in Rukwa Region have either been impregnated or delivered babies while the national rate is 27 per cent.