PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan launched Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School in Kibaha town, Coast region, saying the institution will play a pivotal role in the modernization of parties participated in the liberation struggles in the Southern part of Africa. At Wednesday's well attended event, the Head of State said the institution will be preparing leaders to be ethical and capable of taking part in the modification of the six parties that took place in liberating some African countries which were under colonial rule. The $45 million project has been funded by the China Government under Communist Party of China (CPC), Tanzania ruling party Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). Other parties played key roles in independence struggles were African National Congress Party (South Africa), The South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO, Namibia), Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola (MPLA) and Zanu-PF (Zimbabwe) and Frelimo (Mozambique). President Samia who doubles as CCM national chairperson asked representatives of the mentioned party to bring their leaders and cadres at the leadership school as the liberation movement parties are fighting to liberate their respective countries economically. In his party, ANC representative said there was no doubt that the school would take this partnership to greater heights and noted that the continent was hungry for leadership. "Youths in our countries are also crying out for an opportunity to make meaningful contributions, therefore we dare not close the door of learning in their face. "This is not only a celebration of a building constructed but also a legacy that shape to the course of freedom as championed by our leaders and our ancestors like Mwalimu Julius Nyerere," says ANC official who is representing President Cyril Ramaphosa at the launching of the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere  Leadership School in Kibaha, Coast Region. "The success of liberation struggle was enriched from Tanzania, therefore, it is no surprise that as we face new challenges of the world Tanzania once again leads the lid by availing her  precious resource of land and hospitality for the leadership school," says ANC official at the launching ceremony of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School. Meanwhile, SWAPO Party Secretary General, Sophia Shaningwa who represented Namibian President Hage Geingob at the well-attended colourful event said the institution of its own kind in the region will help in inculcating youth the fundamentals and principles of the Pan-Africans revolution in the history of African Independence. "Indeed today our six sister parties are ensuring that the legacy of the liberation struggle will not only be preserved through this party school of excellence, '' she noted. Julius Kambarage Nyerere was born in Butiama, in northern Tanzania, on 13 April 1922 and died on 14 October 1999. Many visitors from the region and elsewhere make the journey to Butiama to visit his grave and to remember how he used his life to transform eastern and southern Africa. In July 2018, Tanzania’s fifth phase President Dr John Magufuli laid the foundation stone for the construction of the Mwalimu Nyerere Leadership School at Kibaha.