KAGERA Regional Commissioner Major Gen Charles Mbuge (pictured) has directed District Commissioners and District Executive Directors in the region to speed up the implementation of postal codes, urging them to ensure that the exercise is completed before the deadline set for May 20th this year. He issued the directive yesterday while launching the postal code system where he also urged Kagera residents and all Tanzanians to prepare and participate in the Population and Housing Census exercise slate for August, this year. According to the 2012 Population and Housing Census projections Kagera region’s population currently stood at 3.2 million. Elaborating, he said postal codes are important social identifiers and also act as essential elements in the country’s development. “One of the advantages of having customer addresses with valid postal codes is that it helps to ensure that mails and shipments reach them without delays. It also optimizes costs by reducing the chances of courier agents having to return shipments because of failed deliveries,” he said. A postal code refers to a system wherein a country is mapped out by a series of unique numbers. Each country has its own postal code system. It is a series of numerical numbers that identify specific postal delivery point or area and for Tanzania the precisely defined area is the ward. This professional allocation of postal codes was done after a long search involving different experts. Addresses are an important part of consumer identities and hence, brands must maintain clean, updated address databases for all their customers. Pursuant to Article 41 of the Electronic and Postal Communications Act, 2010 the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) informed the public that the list of postal codes for the United Republic of Tanzania was published under the Official Gazette Notice Number 240 dated April 22, 2016. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology recently launched the National Physical Addressing (NaPA) system in Mwanza City, which marks the beginning of residential addressing and postcode services in the area. Mwanza City Council is a model for NaPA system towards reaching all the councils countrywide. Former Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Dr Ashatu Kijaji said while launching the NaPA system that in order to access the services one should download a programme dubbed ‘Programme Tumizi’ on mobile phones. She remarked that the NaPA system is connected to all public institutions, including those at Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA), National Identification Authority (NIDA), Health as well as Land Management Information systems.