TANZANIA and DR Congo are planning to organise a joint meeting between business communities of the two countries to discuss the business trend. The Premier said that the meeting   will discuss various challenges facing traders of the two countries and how to address them in order to stimulate the economy of the two nations and of individuals. Majaliwa made the remarks on Friday after holding talks with his Congolese  counterpart Sama Lukonde at the latter’s office in Kinshasa. "We have plenty of opportunities in Lake Tanganyika where Tanzania has built five  crucial ports  which can be used by DR Congo, we have also a  road which we use from  Tunduma  to  Kaprimposhi-Kasumbalesa but now  we want to change  the route  so that it can  pass through  Kasenga Bridge on the border between Congo and Zambia   which is a short  route because it reduces the distance by more than 2,000 kilometers  to and from," he said. The PM said that they have agreed to visit each other in order to enhance and   strengthen relationship. Earlier, the PM met with staff at the Tanzanian embassy in DR Congo, urging them to be more innovative in order to promote economic diplomacy between the two countries. "We want you to strengthen the bilateral relations with our colleagues here in DR Congo, including putting economic diplomacy at work, be more creative in order to benefit from our cooperation," Majaliwa said. Majaliwa was in DR Congo to represent President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the 10th Heads of State Summit of the Regional Oversight Mechanism of the Addis Ababa Framework Agreement. The two-day summit attracted Heads of State and representatives from the 13 countries under the Great Lakes Region in Africa including Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Congo Brazzaville, Ethiopia, Gabon, South Africa, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Zambia, Tanzania, and Uganda. He informed the summit that, Tanzania is implementing various development projects, including construction of a modern railway from Uvinza in Kigoma to Gitega city in Burundi and Kindu city in DR Congo to ensure that it participates in the development of economic prosperity in Africa. Mr Majaliwa has returned to the country.  