PRESIDENT of Zanzibar Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi has urged government officials to adequately address complaints filed by the public via the ‘Sema na Rais Mwinyi’ (SNR) online platform in order for the system to be productive and sustainable. Dr Mwinyi made the call while speaking with SNR Unit officials at the President's office at the State House in Zanzibar, where he received operational information for the last year since the system's launch on February 27, last year. He said the system's administrators at institutions and ministries should make sure they are  doing their jobs properly, and that the government plans to strengthen the system in the future, as well as having a method for disseminating information to the public. The government's goal in developing the system, he says, is to allow individuals to report their complaints to the government so that it may better address them and provide solutions. President Mwinyi reassured the public that the SNR system has been a huge success and that the government will keep working to find answers to the myriad difficulties that are  yet to be resolved. “Over the past one year there has been significant progress in addressing  various challenges presented, apart from the existence of systemic and operational challenges in institutions and ministries,” he said. He said the government's commitment was to resolve all grievances and called for co-operation from everyone. Dr Mwinyi said during that period 73 per cent of the complaints lodged had been resolved. The Head of SNR Unit, President Office, Haji Makame, stated that the Office was able to receive a total of 6,675 complaints from various residents in Unguja and Pemba over the course of a year and act on them. He said that thus far, 4,856 complaints (or 73 per cent) have been addressed, while 1,819 complaints (or 27 per cent) are still being investigated. Mr Makame further said so far a total of 4,856 complaints or 73 per cent were resolved, while 1,819 complaints or 27 per cent were still being monitored. According to him, the majority of the complaints were for the President's Office - Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG), Education and Vocational Training, and the Ministries of Health, Social Welfare, the Elderly, Gender, and Children. Electricity, water, land, and violence, he claimed, were at the forefront of some of the most contentious instances. According to Mr Makame, numerous government officials and executives were accused of involvement in various occurrences, including misappropriation of government funds, in the complaint filed.