THE Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Nape Nnauye has said an application to help mobile phone users to track uses of their internet bundles will soon be unveiled. Mr Nnauye gave the news in the National Assembly on Tuesday, as he explained over the government’s move to address complaints raised by mobile phone users against telecommunications companies. He said there was public outcry over how internet bundles have been used up in mobile phones, with consumers accusing telecoms that they have been stealing their bundles. “We understand that customers are complaining that the telecommunication companies are treating them badly,” he said, adding that the government is working on it by coming up with an application that will help users to track uses of their internet bundles. Mr Nnauye noted that the government has made huge investment in the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). “The fifth-phase government has made huge investment and the sixth phase government has continued to make very big investment at TCRA to the extent that its capacity to monitor communications has increased so much,” he assured. The minister said the TCRA has continued assessing complaints from mobile users that sometimes their bundles were used up before a particular customer using them. “The results of assessed complaints show that there was no theft committed but there is a challenge of using smartphones by mobile phone users,” he stated. “The challenges occurred in two areas, including that the smartphones, even if you don’t use them, there are some applications that continue working and use bundles. As a result, customers find that their bundles have been used without them knowing,” he said. Another reason, he said the smart phones have what is called a ‘hot spot’ which allows phone users to use other people’s internet bundles. “After investigation on some customers’ complaints it was found that their bundles were used up by others through the ‘hotspot’ connections,” Mr Nnauye said. Speaking over solutions to the problem, he said, the TCRA Consumer Consultative Council (TCRA CCC) has designed an application that is currently on trial to help a consumer to make follow up of used bundles and be able to switch off some of applications in their smartphones. “We are now doing trials on the application, upon completion; we will give it to the consumers. Apart from that we continue educating the mobile phone users over proper use of the smartphones…so far, we have not established any theft, we can’t blame operators over this,” he insisted, assuring that the application will be a remedy because it will tell which application has used bundles. The minister was speaking upon tabling a report over implementation of activities of the Infrastructures Development Committee over the past one year. In its report the committee noted with concern over decline in mobile money transactions contrary to policy expectations in the sector. Therefore, the committee advised the government to supervise the TCRA to meet stakeholders and service providers in finding out sources of reduced transactions.