THE Parliamentary Committee on Investment, Industry and Trade has implored the government to push the implementation of strategic projects undertaken by the National Development Corporation (NDC). The committee cited one of the projects as the Liganga and Mchuchuma iron ore project, whereby discussion between the government and Sichuan Ltd has taken so long to conclude. Tabling a committee’s implementation report for the past one year, Chairman David Kihenzile said the government has to conclude the discussion so that the implementation could start as soon as possible to make citizens benefit from such natural resources available in their areas. In the meantime, the committee recommended that citizens whose lands were taken to pave the way for implementation of strategic projects under the NDC should be compensated without waiting for the commencement of the projects. “The failure to implement projects causes loss to the government and delays the country's development through tax that could have been collected and jobs that could be created,” Mr Kihenzile said. In its report, the committee also raised concern over the performance and efficiency of the Tanzania Biotec Products Limited (TBPL) located in Kibaha, Coast Region. The government through the NDC constructed the industry which manufactures biolarvicides aiming at fighting malaria in the country and in other African countries. However, the committee noted with concern that the factory has stopped production due to various challenges, including collapse of machines and lack of market. “Therefore, the Parliament resolves that the government has to insist the Health Ministry and the Regional Administration and Local Government to buy the biolarvicides,” he said. He further said the government should take steps to do maintenance on the production machineries in order to make the plant resume production. The committee also suggested that the government has to review the contract it entered with the Labiofam Company for the plant. On the other hand, the committee suggested that the government should look for other investors to take over privatized factories that are currently not operational. “The government should do thorough assessment for efficiency for industries that would be re-privatized or run under shareholding,” he said.