I think if we decided to stick to our African traditions, some of the problems we experience will never happen, especially for us men. I don’t know the smart Alec who thought it was a good idea to abandon our noble traditions and moved us to the Western traditions which did exist during the days of our ancestors. A good example is this thing called Valentine’s day, a day which is meant to celebrate love, but if you ask me, this chap should have been hanged from the nearest tree. Believe me, this fellow called Valentine for decades has been responsible for break ups and unwanted pregnancies, and deaths of ignorant people who engaged in unprotected sex. I know you think l am ranting for no apparent reason, but believe me, as l am writing this l am still locked out of my own bedroom by my warlike wife simply because of this Valentine fellow. Just imagine, a grown fellow like me, with a very healthy bald head, being locked out of my own bedroom by a woman whose father received a fat dowry from my clan. That is why l am sure my ancestors who made lions to run for cover will be ashamed of me if they witness my humiliating situation, because of a certain fellow called Valentine, who l understand lived centuries ago. You see, for most men, l think they will agree with me that this celebration which involves wearing red outfits and handing out flowers sometimes comes with a price, because we do not cherish it the way our female counterparts do. Women will start waiting for the next Valentine the next day after celebrating Valentine’s day, and woe unto you if you ignore that day. My predicament started when l was sitting at Zakayo’s Pub sipping my drink the way a child suckles on its mother’s breast, when a young man selling cheap watches walked in. I was sitting with a chap called Ivan the terrible and Jatello, my friend from the lakeside, who summoned the hawker over to our table. Ivan was attracted to a particular watch which looked like the original version of a Seiko 5, but for an experienced watch lover like me l knew that it was a fake. Coincidentally my watch had died a few days ago when l slipped and fell in the toilet at Zakayo’s, so l thought to myself that it wouldn’t be a bad idea if l bought a cheap watch before l gathered enough courage to purchase a new, genuine watch. Of course it was an innocent move, but my mistake was that l had completely forgotten that it was Valentine’s day, which l usually forget all the same. A few days before, the mother of my clan cornered me when l was heading out of the house and asked me if l had any plans for Valentine, and l told her the naked truth, that l did not even remember that the day still exists. She told me that she had already bought a red dress for that day, and the other mistake l made was to ask her who will accompany her. Anyway, l forgot all about the watch and we continued to swallow cold ones until very late, and l was surprised to see several missed calls from my wife when l was about to enter the house. I found her awake, with her arms akimbo right in the middle of the living room, and somehow l breathed a sigh of relief when l noticed that she was not holding her favorite weapon, the greasy frying pan. She looked at me as if she was witnessing a cat dragging in a dead rat before asking me if l had suddenly become deaf. I told her that my hearing was in perfect condition, but I did not hear her call because of the noise at the pub. She was angry, that I can assure you, but she reached boiling point when she noticed the brand new fake watch on my wrist, and all the Nyakiusa demons became active at the same time. “So l can see you ignored my calls because you were with your mistress, congratulations, l can also see that she bought you a Valentine present,” she said, but there was no indication that the congratulations were genuine. My friend, l tried to explain that l am the one who bought the watch, but it was the same as explaining the operation of a forklift to a goat. She stormed to the bedroom and locked the door, and after several knocks, she opened the door and threw a bedsheet and a pillow at my face, and the pillow had been my companion ever since.