FOLLOWING the GSM's abrupt termination of the Premier League co-sponsorship, notable top flight league clubs have called for a stakehoders’ dialogue so that GSM returns. On Monday, GSM officially pulled out its co-sponsors role of the Premier League citing failure by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to respect some of the agreed contract terms, hence opted to step aside. However, the withdrawal has received mixed reactions from the football fraternity with many calling for immediate talks to be held between GSM and TFF so as to rectify the identified shortfalls and allow the firm to reinstate its co-sponsorship role. In his reaction, Ruvu Shooting Information Officer Masau Bwire noted that the departure of GSM is a big blow to clubs saying if the reasons for them to terminate the contract can be discussed, then it is better to do it fast for the benefit of the country's football. "They should come together to find solutions to the problems since the league needs to attract more sponsors and not to lose them," he said while admitting that they have not received any portion from GSM ever since the contract was signed. On his part, Mbeya City secretary Emmanuel Kimbe said they have been shocked by GSM's pull out of co-sponsorship contract saying he believes that the concerned parties will meet to find a way forward. "Of course, we have not received any amount from their sponsorship but that is not a big issue because we knew that anytime, we could have received our portion according to the contract requirements," he said. He also pointed out that another challenge to face clubs following the withdrwal is that they will incur extra costs to rebrand their jerseys by removing GSM logo which appeared on the left sleeve side of their jerseys. For Biashara United, their Chairman Seleman Mataso said they are just waiting to hear what TFF will say as they are the country's football governing body. "For us, we have nothing much to say about the departure of GSM and we just want to see what TFF will decide," said Mataso. Earlier, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) chairman Stephen Mguto when contacted for their feedback, threw the ball to TFF saying they are better placed to clarify on the matter while the federation insist that they are still scrutinising it before making official statement.