TANZANIA’S Broadcasting and Internet Services Value Chain have been further improved and consumer experience enhanced following the recent amendments of two key Regulations – on Broadcasting and Licensing. Changes in the Digital and Other Broadcasting Networks regulations allow television subscription service providers to produce their content, carry commercial advertisements and free to air channels and broadcast live events. Licencing regulations have introduced new categories and lowered fees. The Minister for Information, Communications and Information Technology, Hon. Nape M. Nnauye (MP) explained recently that allowing subscription television channels to carry commercial advertisements would create a conducive environment for investment in subscription content services. Subscription television channels were hitherto not allowed to include commercial advertisements in their broadcasts before these changes. However, their advertisements have been limited to five minutes in an hour. There are two television broadcasting services categories in Tanzania, namely free to air (FTA) terrestrial broadcasting where content is available through set-top boxes (decoders) without additional payments and subscription television- through satellite and cable. The migration from analogue to digital broadcasting brought in a third player in the broadcasting value chain – the multiplex operator – carriers of FTA broadcasting content who are also set-top boxes vendors. TCRA’s recently Procured Mobile Frequency Monitoring Station for improved Frequency Interference Mitigation The amendments allow local FTA television channels to be viewed through all set-top boxes without an additional subscription fee. This is designed to ensure the sustainability of MUX operators, guarantee consumer choice and diversity of content and eliminate set-top box proliferation, since viewers will access more channels through one decoder. Before these amendments local Free to Air television channels were limited to FTA decoders only. Subscription television decoders were not allowed to carry local FTA television channels. Subscription television channels have also been allowed to broadcast live events. However, they are not allowed to broadcast news and current affairs due to regulatory requirements. Subscription services are accessed by limited viewers and are not bound by stringent regulatory measures such as requirements for the submission of programmes line up. Some of the cable operators have licences allowing them to provide services at the administrative district level, with several operating at the ward level. Allowing these to produce and air local content will open up communities and empower local artists. The amendments follow a stakeholder consultation process, involving the Ministry of Information, Communications and Information Technology, the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority, providers of FTA, subscription and multiplex services and the TCRA Consumer Consultative Council (CCC). Changes in the Electronic and Postal Communication (Licensing) Regulations, 2018 include introducing new licence categories, licence fees for satellite phones and cutting fees by up to between 4,900 and 2,900 per cent in some areas. The new licence categories are Internet exchange Points (IXP) in the network facilities licence, special education content services (radio and television), electronic commerce channels and content services by subscription (for aggregation). The ambitious Digital Tanzania project seeks to make Tanzania the regional e-commerce hub. Before the changes, IXPs were not reflected in the licencing framework, whose objective is to encourage standards in providing internet exchange point services to the general public and institutions. The changes are also designed to encourage the use of IXPs to reduce the international transit of local internet traffic. Radio Communications Station licence fees have been reduced from US dollars 3,000 to 100 to speed the penetration and quick take-up of access to broadband services through satellite platforms, especially in remote and rural areas. The Government’s target is to ensure broadband services cover 80 per cent overage of the population by 2025 A licence fee of USD 5,000 for satellite phones has been introduced to establish a separate category for satellite phones intended for voice communication and leave the category of transportable satellite receivers to data connectivity. Spectrum fees for FTA MUX have also been removed to give incentive to MUX to roll out. The community broadcasting services licence has been reclassified from Individual to Class to encourage the establishment of community radio/television stations in areas where business cases do not support the running of a commercial station. Class licences take less time to process and have fewer conditions. These amendments are part of implementing the Digital Tanzania programme in which laws, policies and regulations will be reviewed to promote ICT infrastructure investment, market competitiveness, digital engagement, job creation, and innovation.