PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday said Tanzania is ready to work closely with other countries to boost investment, business and trade for mutual benefit of all parties. She said her government has continued to improve the business and investment climate in Tanzania as part of the efforts to attract investors to the East African nation. The Head of State was speaking  when officiating at the Tanzania day at the Expo Dubai 2020 in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Expo Dubai 2020 dedicated yesterday, February 26th 2022, as the day for Tanzania to promote its products and opportunities. The expo that has attracted over 190 participating countries started on October 1st, 2021 and is set to end on March 31st, 2022. “Tanzania is a peaceful and stable country which is a crucial asset for one top investment, we have opened doors for everyone to visit and explore the available opportunities,” she noted. She also commended the UAE for hosting the Expo 2020 even after the eruption of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Despite Covid-19, the UAE has shown the resilience and commitment to adopt the new reality and keep businesses going, this is a way to go for the  benefit of all parties,” she explained. She said so far, over 100,000 people from different countries have visited the Tanzanian pavilion at the exhibition, inviting all countries participating in the event to visit the Tanzania pavillion where they will have access to  information on business and investment opportunities. “I’m impressed by the theme of the Expo that says ‘Connecting mind, creating future’ this goes well with our theme that reads, ‘Tanzania is ready to take off and we are really ready for that,” she elaborated. She said, the theme embraces a new edge of investment and trade, and that Tanzania is a strategic partner with the UAE and all other   members in the Gulf region. Going forward, President Samia reassured the commitment of Tanzania to continue working together with the UAE to ensure that the sound historical social economic and political cooperation is promoted and sustained for better mutual interest of the people. Earlier, the UAE Minister for Tolerance and Coexistence, Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, who is also the Commissioner General for Expo Dubai 2020 commended Tanzania for being one of the closest partners in social and economic development. “Tanzania has always been one of the closest UAE partners across the cultural and mutual interest, health care, infrastructural and support to small and medium size entrepreneurs,” he said. The UAE minister assured of the country’s commitment to continue utilising every opportunity to enhance the bilateral ties that the two countries share in common. “We are proud to have managed to deliver our promise of hosting this exhibition,” noted Sheikh Nahyan. In another development, as part of the ‘Tanzania National Day’ engagements running alongside Expo 2020, the Ministry of Energy has organised a ‘Tanzania Energy Symposium’ that will take place today, 27th February 2022, in Dubai. The theme of the Symposium is “Promoting Tanzania as East Africa’s Energy Hub”. Speaking at the symposium, Minister for Minerals January Makamba said this will be the right platform to attract investors in the energy sector. “Tanzania is strategically located to serve East and Central Africa, and we are determined to make this desire a reality. One way of doing so is by attracting high caliber investors in the energy sector,” he noted. During the symposium, Mr Makamba and other members of the technical team will present opportunities and spearhead discussions on investment, financing and strategy in upstream, midstream, and downstream oil and gas projects. Also petroleum supply and storage infrastructure, electricity generation, transmission and distribution, rural electrification and renewable energies will be part of the minister’s presentation.