AZAM FC assistant coach John Matambala said his charges are upbeat to outshine Biashara United in today’s Premier League match at CCM Kirumba stadium. Speaking during a press conference at CCM Kirumba Stadium, Matambala said they are aware of the importance of the game since it is part of their campaign in achieving their goal to win the Premier League. “We are aware of the importance of this game. That’s why we have arrived in Mwanza early to have a better drill, and our preparations are going on well so far,” he said. On his side, Azam skipper Aggrey Morris said their morale is high, and the team has improved much after a disappointing start to the season. “Players are ready to fulfil their responsibilities by winning every match ahead of them. “Players are fine. We need to win our match against Biashara United; initially, we started with a little speed, but now the morale is high. We are getting stronger and stronger as the league goes on. Our goal is to win all matches and the Premier League title,” Morris said. Responding, Biashara United head coach Vivien Bahati has said they need to win their match against Azam to restore the fans’ confidence and the level they had last season when they finished fourth overall. He said after being eliminated from the Azam Sports Federation Cup by Yanga they are now fully prepared to win their Premier League matches starting with that against Azam. He said he is satisfied with the changes within the squad since he was handed the responsibilities earlier this year.
He added that his team plays with confidence, creating chances and scoring goals while saying there is still a lot of work to improve it further.
“We are fine after losing the FA. We have planned a home match, and we are doing well. However, indeed, the team’s situation is not good, and we need to score to make it better.” Biashara United skipper Abdulmajid Mangalo said initially; the team was facing bluntness as they wasted many scoring opportunities they created. “We players are well prepared, and we have realised this match’s importance because it is an important game. We are not very bad. We have been creating many chances, but we are not lucky enough to score. I believe the coach has been working on it, and from this game, we will start showing changes,” he said.