HOLDERS Simba will face the Championship side Pamba, while Young Africans are pitted against Geita Gold in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) quarterfinals (April 8th to 13th this year. The ASFC draw was conducted on Monday at Azam Media Limited headquarters in Dar es Salaam. The draw has placed Azam FC against Polisi Tanzania while Coastal Union will host Kagera Sugar in Tanga. However, the possibility of watching the Dar es Salaam Derby again in this year’s ASFC is high, just like what happened in the past two seasons. In both instances, Simba emerged winners with the first meeting winning 4-1, while last season, they emerged 1-0 victorious in a thrilling finale in Kigoma. Pamba, being the only team from the Championship league, will have to take extra drill if they want to knock out the defending champions, Simba. To reach this far, Pamba defeated Dodoma Jiji 2-1 while Simba handed Ruvu Shooting a 7-0 blitz. For Yanga, their match against Geita Gold is also a tricky encounter, bearing in mind that the meeting is always tough whenever the two sides meet. Their first meeting in the NBC Premier League ended 1-0 in favour of Yanga courtesy of Jesus Moloko, who netted his first league goal on Tanzania soil and the slim win indicates how tough the game was. Now, the Geita-based outfits have an opportunity to avenge the painful loss they suffered when they meet again in the ASFC battle. Another tense game in the last eight will be between Azam versus Polisi Tanzania, as each side has the required power to make it into the semi-final. Azam were among heavy winners in the round of 16 when they mercilessly crushed Baga Friends 6-0 while Polisi Tanzania saw off Tanzania Prisons with a 2-0 win. In another match, pitting Coastal Union versus Kagera Sugar seems to be a balanced game, and the victory can go either way depending on who wakes up from the right side of the bed. Coastal Union hammered Mtibwa Sugar 2-0 while Kagera Sugar produced a slim 1-0 over Namungo on their way to quarters.