Although slavery is commonly thought to be a thing of the past, it is unfortunate that human trafficking still exists today globally, where traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to compel their victims to either engage in commercial sex or force them to provide labour services against their will. Over the past decade human trafficking has become one of the major concerns of the international community and one of the most profitable activities of organized criminal groups worldwide. Human trafficking is a form of modern slavery where people profit from the control and exploitation of others. Like many other forms of criminal activities, it takes advantage of conflicts, humanitarian disasters and the vulnerability of people in situations of crisis. Men, women and children are abducted and sold for sexual exploitation and forced labour. Traffickers use violence, threats, deception, debt bondage, and other manipulative tactics to trap victims in horrific conditions every day. All trafficking victims share one essential experience-the loss of freedom. For instance, five years ago, Anicia Bebwa (25), a resident of Muleba District’s Kamishango village was promised a decent job in Dar es Salaam City by an invitation from a friend. However, as days passed she did not get the job and instead ended on the streets selling narcotic drugs. Recently, she returned home and now conducts sensitisation campaigns to youths on how to avoid engaging in such evil acts. Thousands of people, especially women and girls were being subjected to inhuman acts and were being trafficked in different corners of the world. Tanzania has also not been spared and joint efforts are thus needed to combat this global crisis. The victims of human trafficking, especially women and children are exposed to the worst forms of inhuman acts, such as work in hazardous environment, slavery, or other forms of forced labour, illicit activities such as drug trafficking and prostitution. In 2000 the United Nations signed the Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons, especially women and children while the Tanzania Parliament passed the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act No 6/2008. The Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act criminalised sex trafficking and labour trafficking and prescribed punishments of two to 10 years’ imprisonment, a fine between 5m/- and 100m/- or both for offences involving adult victims, and 10 to 20 years’ imprisonment, a fine between 5m/- and 150m/-, or both for those involving child victims. Despite the said protocols, the world is still witnessing an increase in trafficking in persons, where the criminals pocket millions of dollars from the illegal trade, while unfortunately, the victims especially women and children are exposed to inhuman acts resulting in deaths of innocent lives each year. Law enforcement officers in Kagera region recently attended a five-day capacity building training, when they appealed for joint efforts from all Tanzanians in fighting human trafficking which is a global crisis. Equally they commended the Tanzania Relief Initiative (TRI), the Anti-Trafficking Secretariat under the Ministry for Home Affairs (MOHA) and the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), for playing a key role in fighting the vice. In the course, Bukoba High Court Judge in-charge, Dr Ntemi Kilekamajenga, lauded the Tanzania Relief Initiative (TRI), the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and other organisations for playing a key role in combating human trafficking. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Ahmed Mwendadi, Head of the Training, Advocacy and International Cooperation in the Anti-Trafficking Secretariat Ministry for Home Affairs (MOHA), explained that the government was coordinating other key stakeholders in the implementation of the Anti Trafficking Act. Between July 2020 to December 2021, a total of 2,018 victims from Tanzania Mainland were rescued from human trafficking. Out of the number, one victim was found in Iraq, Kurdistan (1), Malaysia (1), and Kenya (5) and 38 from Zanzibar. During same period, seven criminal cases involving trafficking in persons were filled in court involving 26 criminals, and finding guilty 20 to serve jail. Reached for a comment, Kagera Regional Immigration Officer (RIO), Assistant Commissioner Thomas Fussi explained that a total of 4,172 prohibited immigrants were nabbed by the Immigration Department in Kagera Region last year for entering and living in Tanzania without processing residential permits. The prohibited immigrants included 3,200 Burundians, 673 Ugandans, 233 Rwandese and 23 from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).