TANZANIA Port Authority (TPA) has extended the deadline for completion of Karema Port to one more month after the Chinese contractor failed to honour the contract. The contractor, Xiamen Ongoing Construction Group Company, failed to meet the deadline which is less than two weeks the construction works reached 79 per cent. TPA's Director of Engineering Services Dr Baraka Mdima said the one-month deadline extension came since “it’s obvious” that the contractor won’t beat the next month's deadline to handle the 48bn/- port. "Due to the delay of the project the contractor will definitely never meet the deadline with two weeks at hand before handing over the port,” Dr Mdima, who is a mechanical engineer, said when he toured the construction site after Katavi RC called TPA to sort out the delay issue. Also, TPA directed the contractor to speed up the pace of construction to meet the deadline new deadline. Katavi RC Ms Mwanamvua Mrindoko toured the port construction site and subsequently issued a five-day ultimatum to TPC engineers to arrive and address challenges that had caused the project to stall. "Last week, I ordered TPA engineers to come to the construction site and address the challenges that made the project stall—they responded to my call,” MS Mrindoko said. She added: “I'm delighted that several TPA senior engineers that have reported to my office yesterday and they are already at the construction site...They have promised to address the challenges that caused the project to stall as well as making close-up supervision to increase the speed of the project." The project is constructed at Karema ward along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Tanganyika district, Katavi. Upon completion, the terminal will have a berth stretching to 150 meters that will have the capacity to accommodate ships with a length of 75 meters The port is a strategic terminal meant to stimulate the movement of goods, people and services and boost cross-trade between Tanzania and parts of Eastern Democratic of Congo (DR - Congo), Zambia and Burundi across Lake Tanganyika.