PRESIDENT Hussein Ali Mwinyi has directed responsible ministries for health and education to recruit more health staff and teachers respectively, since the government has built several buildings for the sectors. "It is fortunate that we are having new buildings for hospitals and schools that need human resources, so we need to recruit new employees for efficiency," said Dr Mwinyi as he ordered the ministries to announce job opportunities. He emphasized that in new employments, young people who have been volunteering for long should be given priority, as he warned the employers not to ignore the healthcare servants and teachers who have been volunteering in the country. The president officiated the opening of the newly built Primary Health Care Unit- second level (PHCU+) in Kidimni village where he directed the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, Elderly, Gender, and Children to ensure that the new facility acquires enough skilled staff. He said the government was committed to improving health services in the Islands by ensuring that all health facilities are well equipped with skilled personnel, medicines and equipment, and that works were in progress to construct new buildings for schools and hospitals in each of the 10 districts to reduce congestions of patients at Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital. Dr Mwinyi informed the gathering at the opening of the facility that many construction works currently take place in different areas of Unguja and Pemba. "Zanzibar is moving towards a better direction in achieving development goals," he said. The President used the opportunity to thank NGOs, donors and development partners (including religious and security /defense forces) for supporting government programmes, commending the South Korea people for establishing two NGOs: 'NOAH Development Association (ADA) and 'Good People International (GPI)' for funding of the construction of 12-room Kidimni modern health centre. According to the Unguja South Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Rashid Hadid Rashid, the Korean/Zanzibar NGOs have also built a nursery, constructed 30 water boreholes, supported most of the public schools and offices in the region with computers and printer machines. "We also thank the NGOs for supporting control of the Covid-19, helping inter-schools sports competition involving twelve schools, and also building a new house for a poor person with disability," he said. The Permanent Secretary- Ministry responsible for Health, Dr Fatma Mrisho, said that her ministry and the NGOs were closely cooperating. Ms Mrisho said the construction of the Kidimni hospital started on 1st March to December last year at the cost of about 355.6m/- and the government contributed a land for the facility construction, offered tax exemption on some materials, power and water supply to the facility to serve the 14, 408 residents of Kidimni and neighboring villages of Ubago and Kiboje. The Minister of Health, Social welfare, Elderly, Gender and Children, Mr Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said the pace at which Dr Mwinyi was implementing development projects such as hospitals was high and that by the end of this year Zanzibar will have a new look. Those who were in attendance included First Lady, Ms Maryam Mwinyi, Chief Secretary, Engineer Zena Ahmed Said and ministers led by Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman, regional and districts commissioners, and health workers.