PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Friday walked her talk by revoking the appointment of four district executive directors following misappropriation of the funds released by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to counter the effects of Covid- 19 pandemic. The 1.3trn/ - zero interest rate loan is meant to boost the country’s economy especially in sectors, which have been mostly affected by Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing Magu residents in Mwanza on Friday while on her way to Mara region, President Samia invalidated the appointment of the four directors due to the embezzlement of the funds. She said that during the launch of the Social Economic Response Plan, she had cautioned over misappropriation of the funds but there are councils which have defied her directives. “The day we announced these funds I said that any director who wants to see my actual colours should steal the mon- ey, according to reports I have received, four directors from Buchosa, Iringa , Mbeya and Singida Urban councils have swindled the funds ... I am revoking their appointment with immediate effect,” the president said. The directors whose appointment has been revoked are Paul Malala of Buchosa district of Mwanza, Bernard Limbe of Iringa Municipal Council, Elias Andrea of Mbeya City Council and Zefrin Lubuva of Singida- Urban Municipality. President Samia directed Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Innocent Bashungwa to proceed with investigation on Geita District Executive Director and if proven he has swindled the fund, she will also revoke his appointment. “You have been normally hiding these people, but I have my own report, proceed with you investigation and upon completion I will also make comparison with the mine and take appropriate actions,” she stressed. She said the government is committed to bring development to its people noting that it will not tolerate any one who will hold back the efforts. Launching the 1.3tri/- stout development programme which entails how the country will spend 567.25 million US dollars (about 1.3tri/) in October last year, President Samia warned off swindlers, saying she won’t spare anybody, who will chop any shilling from the money. She said any government official who will misuse, misallocate or embezzle the funds will discover her true colours. Earlier, Minister Bashungwa said that his office was making follow up of the funds released by the government for various development projects. He said currently his office is investigating misappropriation of funds in Buchosa District Council to ensure that all people involved are held accountable. “We are also working on other areas such as Mbeya City whose revenue had dropped in the first two quarters of this financial year,” he said. He said that reports show that 72 (POS) Points of Sale were switched off for 100 days,” we are investigating to find out what caused them to be switched off because the situation led to huge loss of revenue. The minister further noted that they were also conducting a thorough assessment in all councils in the country to ensure there is a proper utilisation of funds released for development. While at Lamadi in Simiyu region, President Samia insisted the need for DEDs to ensure proper utilisation of public funds. She said that government officials should avoid embezzling public funds otherwise they will fall into trouble including losing jobs The president further noted that in the previous agricultural season the government dished out 56bn/- to cotton growers in the Lake Zone for farm inputs and other agricultural needs She pledged to provide more funds to ensure that farmers, livestock keepers and fishermen conduct their activities effectively.