ZANZIBAR President Hussein Mwinyi has commended the Italian government for its willingness to continue supporting Zanzibar government to implement and achieve its development programmes. His appreciation was contained in his comments to the Italian Ambassador to Tanzania Marco Lombardi, when they met at the Isles State House on Tuesday. “We are thankful to Italy’s continued commitment to collaborate with Zanzibar in propelling various development programmes, including the leading tourism sector…Italy remains a major stakeholder,” Dr Mwinyi said. The president noted that Zanzibar has for a long time been benefiting from the large number of investors and visitors from Italy, promising that the government will continue to ensure a conducive environment for investors and visitors/tourists to meet their expectations. During the meeting, Dr Mwinyi also expressed his happiness following the Italian government's intention to increase air transport services by bringing in more aircrafts from the country's largest companies making direct flights between Zanzibar and Italy. “More flights bringing in large number of tourists will further strengthen our relations that will lead to economic and business growth,” Dr Mwinyi said, adding that Zanzibar still has a number of opportunities that investors from Italy are welcome to ‘grab.’ The opportunities include sectors under the highly touted blue economy, construction of modern houses and commercial buildings, developing industries, empowering entrepreneurs and strengthening the seaweed farming. President Mwinyi also praised Ambassador Lombardi's call for the establishment of more vocational training centres that will help prepare young people for self-employment, including innovations in tourism business. Earlier, Ambassador Lombardi briefed President Mwinyi that the Italian government appreciates efforts being taken by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, necessitating continued support from Italy. Ambassador Lombardi assured Dr Mwinyi that Italy will continue to work with the Zanzibar government in ensuring the tourism industry grows. He said that in ensuring that the goal is achieved, the embassy will put its weight on a major business forum to be organized in September 2022 in Zanzibar, aiming at discussing various economic opportunities available. In addition, the ambassador informed the president about his plans to encourage companies in Italy to have a fixed schedule flights directly to Zanzibar and not seasonal as it is currently the case. The objective, he said is to improve tourism and trade. The Italian Ambassador further briefed President Mwinyi that plans to establish training centres in Zanzibar that, among other things, will help in strengthening the tourism industry and also promising to support the blue economy agenda to ensure Zanzibar moves forward and achieves its goals.