TANZANIA is opening up to the world as one of the most attractive investment and tourism destinations. Having being struck by the Covid-19 pandemic like other parts of the world, Tanzania is back on track, especially due to the way it copied with the pandemic without exercising strict lockdowns as opposed to some other countries. Tourists have started jetting in the country to visit different attractions, after their respective countries waived the lockdowns and they have been enjoying the Ngorongoro Conservation Area, the Serengeti National Park, Kilimanjaro National Park (that has the world’s highest free standing mountain). We have also seen opening up of the Tanzania’s southern circuit of tourism as opposed to what was popular in the past – only the northern part of Tanzania. This means more visitors to the southern part, including Ruaha National Park and Nyerere National Park, formerly the Selous Game Reserve. Tanzania has attained the middle-income status and is due to rise more, as it implements the industrialization agenda as well as strategic projects like the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) and others. President Samia Suluhu Hassan recently concluded her visit to France and Belgium where she held several meetings with Tanzanians residing there as well as business community. With what is taking place in Tanzania in terms of investment and tourism, her visit to Europe further opened the country to the world and her move, through location marketing has already attracted prospective investors from the two nations and the first French business community delegation is expected to arrive in the country soon. The President has branded well Tanzania through her visits and meetings as well as phone conversations with people in different parts of the world to ensure more investments are made in the country to foster its development agenda. She has successfully convinced stakeholders that Tanzania is a potential investment destination, driving well the economic diplomacy, widening Tanzania’s ties with other countries, in a win-win situation. President Samia also secured about 1.5tri/- that will enable capital injection into the economy. The President’s tireless efforts in branding the country should be supported by everybody for betterment of the country and its people. Tanzanians should join hands towards branding the country and in terms of tourism, they should continue with their hospitality to foreigners as the country is picking up in cultural tourism, as it is the case in Ngorongoro. It is laudable that most of Tanzania’s nature forest reserves have of recent been attracting tourists and one aspect is also cultural tourism. If Tanzania boosts investment and tourism, there is every reason for massive economic growth.