YOUNG Africans have an advantage to open an 11-point gap at the summit of the NBC Premier League table if they defeat Kagera Sugar at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The two sides meet in the second round of the league making it their 16th fixture of the season as the race towards the league podium escalates with each team determined to pick maximum points. In the first round duel held at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera, Yanga stamped a slim 1-0 win courtesy of Feisal Salum who entered in history books for scoring the season's first goal for his team. As such; the visitors will be trying to revenge for the loss they suffered at their home ground to enable themselves grab essential three points in the away territory. However, the Jangwani street giants will be trying to continue their perfect league status of not losing any match from 15 games they have played. They have won 12 games and drawn in three matches at the end of first round. Heading into the today’s game, Yanga  need to produce another great performance after a barren draw with Mbeya City at Mkapa Stadium in their last game there. An away 2-0 win versus Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Complex in Morogoro was their big boost as they successfully re-established an 8-point gap  with their closest challengers and   traditional rivals, Simba. Another important record  Yanga are currently enjoying is that they are the only side to have conceded 4 goals, the  lowest number from 15 matches which literally means that they have the best defence at the end of the first round. In terms of goals, they have again seized the show after netting 25 goals with Azam and Namungo sitting second as each have converted 20 goals. For Kagera Sugar, they will also approach the game with a caution after recording a barren draw with Polisi Tanzania in their recently played league match. From 15 matches they have played, Francis Baraza's men have hauled 20 points as such; they are still hungry to continue winning more and more matches to stay comfortable on the table. Their best results in the first round was a 1-0 win they stamped after defeating holders Simba at Kaitaba Stadium. Coach Baraza is among the highly respected coaches in the league and despite a false start at the helm of Kagera Sugar this season, he has managed to settle and Kagera Sugar are among the strong teams to face.