MEMBERS of Parlaiment showered praise and expressed optimisms on reforms in dispensing justice and dealing with issues of money laundering as the House endorsed two key Bills. These are Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) no 7 of 2021 and Anti-Money Laundering Bill 2022. The Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (NO. 7)-proposes amendments to nine written laws were endorsed on Monday this week. It proposes amendments to written laws, namely; the College of Wildlife Management Act, (Cap. 209), the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights (Cap. 218), the Criminal Procedure Act (Cap. 20), the Economic and Organised Crimes Control Act (Cap. 200), and the National Prosecutions Service Act (Cap. 430). Others are the National Sports Council of Tanzania Act (Cap. 49), the Penal Code (Cap. 16), the Universal Communications Services Access Act, (Cap. 422), and the Veterinary Act, (Cap. 319). Elaborating, the amended the College of Wildlife Management Act, (Cap. 209) bill proposes to amend section 2 in order to eliminate from the Act definitions of certain terms, which are no longer applicable in the Act. Finance and Planning Minister Dr Mwigulu Nchemba told the House that the Anti-Money Laundering Bill 2022 proposes amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering Act, Cap. 423 and make consequential adjustments to other laws in order to address challenges in combating money laundering and countering financing of terrorism and countering the proliferation financing. The Bill proposes to make consequential change to five other laws, namely the Bank of Tanzania Act, Cap. 197, the Capital Markets and Securities Act, Cap. 79, the Insurance Act, Cap. 394, the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, Cap. 254, the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Cap. 19 and the Proceeds of Crimes Act, Cap. 256. The lawmakers engaged in debate and passing of the two Bills in two consecutive days on Monday and yesterday respectively. When contributing, Mr Joseph Tadayo, (Mwanga-CCM) remarked that the Miscellaneous Amendments Bill has come at the right time considering that just recently, the country marked the Law Day. He said, for instance, changes in the article 23 of the criminal proceedings, proposes that disputes should start being heard at mediation level before going to the court. “This is because many people have been detained. Article 26, proposes that a person should not be sent to court until investigations are completed. This will give a big relief to many people, since investigation is the backbone of justice, so I support the Bill," he said. Mr Yahaya Massare (Manyoni West – CCM) hailed the Attorney General (AG), saying that the Bill has done justice to the Tanzanian community. “It will bring justice since there were many areas in the Act that have ambiguities,” he said. Speaking over sports betting, Ms Hadija Keisha (Special-Seats CCM) said the Bill was good since it is going to discourage the sports betting, which has affected many youth as they don’t think of working, but engage in betting to earn a living. Contributing to the debate, Constitution and Legal Affairs Deputy Minister, Geofrey Pinda, said almost all MPs, who spoke supported the amendments. “Always, law amendments are done to meet needs in the community. Among others, these changes will go to reduce crowding in prisons,” he said. On other hand, when contributing to Money Laundering Bill, yesterday, Mr Luhaga Mpina (Kisesa-CCM) proposed that the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) in the ministry of finance has lacked powers, thus it should be an agency to have more powers. Kinondoni MP Abbasi Tarimba (CCM) commended the government for bringing in the Parliament the Anti-Money Laundering Bill. “I ask the Parliament to endorse these law changes, so we can effectively control money laundering in the country,” Mr Tarima appealed prior to endorsement. Special-Seats MP Halima Mdee (CHADEMA) remarked: I recognize the readiness of the Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs for incorporating views of the Constitution and Legal Affairs Parliamentary Committee when drafting the Bill. She further argued that the Bill has increased scope of informers by including new informers such clearing and forwarding agents, which is a good thing, but suggested that they need to be trained first. Handeni-Urban legislator Kwagilwa Nhamanilo (CCM) said: “I take this opportunity to thank our President Samia Suluhu Hassan for giving this issue of Anti-Money Laundering a desired weight to enable the country adopt international standards in legal system.” 