SNAKES are elongated, legless reptiles that have eyes but which have no eyelids. All snakes are carnivore and swallow their prey whole. In biology snakes belong to phylum chordata, subphylum vertebrate, class reptilian, order squamata and sub order serpente. It is believed that snakes evolved from burrowing lizards such as varanids during the Cretaceous period which is around 1000 million years ago. The ancestor of snakes is called Mosasaurs. Scientists say mosasaurs is an extinct group of aquatic squamate reptiles. It lived from about 82 to 66 million years ago and fossil evidence suggests they inhabited much of theAtlantic Ocean and the seaways adjacent to it. Paleontologists say continents where fossils of the ancient reptiles have been found include North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Western Asia, and Antarctica. On the other side, different statistics show that approximately 3,000 species of snakes are distributed across every continent except Antarctica. They are cold blooded reptiles whose internal body temperature varies with the place where the snake is. Some are nocturnal such as Egyptian cobra while other are diurnal. Hate, fear or like them but scientists say snakes play a significant ecological role in our ecosystem with some of them being poisonous while other are less poisonous. One of the oldest stories in the world which is found in the holy books speaks of one very interesting incident. It is recorded that Satan used the beautiful snake body to deceive Eva who tricked Adam to commit the first sin. The scripture continues to state that after the offence, humans were forced out of the paradise and foundation of enmity between Adam and the reptile was laid down. Because of what happened the religious preaches quote Genesis 3:15 in the bible: “And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers; he will crush your head, and you will strike his heel.” With such teachings, the hate of snakes has continued without the steam letting off. From that time humans were asked to kill snakes by crushing their heads while the reptiles were stripped off their legs and asked to bite humans’ feet. In many parts of Africa’s villages, during the evening, children gather at a fireplace to listen thrilling short stories from their grandparents. Right from its establishment, the African oral tradition is full of many interesting stories but the tale of a gigantic snake which swallowed all people from a neighbourhood is unforgettable. The short story unveils how a brave young man managed to serve his village which repeatedly came under attacks from gigantic snake. The huge snake was staying in a tropical rain forest which was located near a village full of coward men who did not stand strongly to defend their families and other villagers. In modern days we may brand those men as people who lack courage but in those old good days the world was full of giant creatures. Due to the availability of both grazing and hunting ground with surplus recourses, the African tropical forests were full of giant antelopes, colossal elephants and scary reptiles such as Pythons. The tale about the gigantic snake and others of its nature tell us that at the beginning of time the African continent was dominated by huge forests. Spreading from western to eastern part of the continent, the forests were homes to many animals including snakes such as ancestors of modern African Rock Python. The typical African rock python adult measures 4.8 meters but rumors from Congo forest and Selous in Tanzania and other tropical forests in the continent indicate there are bigger species measuring up to 6 metres. Scientists say with availability of enough food, it’s possible to have larger species in tropical rain forest of western Tanzania especially in game reserves such as Lukwati, Rukwa, Luaf, Ugala, Kigosi, Moyowosi, Burigi, Kimisi, Rumanyika and national parks such as Katavi, Mahale and Gombe. An adult African rock python which is in good health weighs from 44 to 55 kilogrammes but there are few which carry more than 91 kilogrammes. This claim was proved in 1958 when a very large African rock python measuring 7 meters was killed in one of tropical rain forests of Africa but scientists say males are typically smaller than females. With influence of African oral traditions together with its massive body, the African rock python is widely feared even though it very rarely kills humans. Scientists say these snakes are smart hunters which know how to use landform such as rocks which are brown in colour and features like dry vegetation. The African rock pythons are very clever, capable of combining different things for camouflaging with their yellowish, brownish or grey body colours. Like other species of snakes the body of Python is covered by irregular shaped scales which shine from their hard surfaces which provide protection to the internal delicate body system made up by different organs. Pythons have a small triangular head marked with backward turned V symbols around both eyes which are used for hiding. Its body is covered with blackish, brownish or greyish scales with smooth surface that helps the snake to penetrate easily between different vegetation and maneuvre quickly on rocks. Miraculously the snake is said to use its fork-like tongue to scan the surrounding when it is extended from the mouth to collect moisture from the air and deposit them into the upper floor of the mouth. The fear for snake is born out of their habits, this may happen when a common man sees a snake standing in front of him while its forked tongue is extended from the mouth. Scientists say normally snakes put out their tongue to collect chemical particles from the mass of air which surrounds its environment. Snakes are known to have high ability of utilising the potentiality of sensory organs such as ears, eyes, scales and tongue which works well in conjunction with internal sensory organs. Snakebite is an injury caused by the bite of a snake such as Cobra, often it results in two puncture wounds from the animal’s fangs and most of the time poisoning from the bite may occur. Scientists say although many people are afraid of Cobras these snakes don’t carry venom to attack people but they use the poisonous liquid as weapon for hunting different preys. The forest cobra also called the Black cobra and Black or White lipped cobra, is native to Africa, mostly the central, western and eastern parts of the continent. With a body length measuring up to 3.1 meters, the forest cobra is one of the largest true cobra species. This Cobra carries powerful venom which it viciously delivers between 0.324 to 571 mg per bite and kills most of its prey. Forest cobras feed on a wide variety of prey including frogs, mice, fish, monitor lizards and other snakes. It also prey on different lizards, rodents, and other small mammals such as elephant shrew. The Forest cobra has been successful to live in different environment because of its ability to change according to its needs, time and locality. This is an agile snake working mostly on day time, also it’s capable of climbing on tree up to 10 meters in search for bird chicks and eggs. When this dangerous snake resides near swamp, Forest cobra is known to swim very well down to snatch a fish which is passing in its vicinity. carry venom to attack people but they use the poisonous liquid as weapon for hunting different preys. The forest cobra also called the Black cobra and Black or White lipped cobra, is native to Africa, mostly the central, western and eastern parts of the continent. With a body length measuring up to 3.1 meters, the forest cobra is one of the largest true cobra species. This Cobra carries powerful venom which it viciously delivers between 0.324 to 571 mg per bite and kills most of its prey. Forest cobras feed on a wide variety of prey including frogs, mice, fish, monitor lizards and other snakes. It also prey on different lizards, rodents, and other small mammals such as elephant shrew. The Forest cobra has been successful to live in different environment because of its ability to change according to its needs, time and locality. This is an agile snake working mostly on day time, also it’s capable of climbing on tree up to 10 meters in search for bird chicks and eggs. When this dangerous snake resides near swamp, Forest cobra is known to swim very well down to snatch a fish which is passing in its vicinity. While not active, the Forest cobra may it takes cover in holes, brush piles, hollow logs, among root clusters or in rock crevices, or in abandoned termite mounds at forest fringe or clearings. The Mozambique spitting cobra is mostly found in tropical savannah forest Africa including different parts of Tanzania. Just like the Forest cobra, this snake also use its venom for hunting prey, the Mozambique spitting cobra diet mainly consists of amphibians, other snakes, birds, eggs, small mammals, and even insects occasionally. The black necked spitting cobra is a species of spitting cobra found mostly in sub Saharan Africa, they are moderately sized snakes that can grow to a length of 1.2 to 2.2 meters. This specie is very common and is widespread through much of sub Saharan Africa and is found in western, eastern, central, and parts of southern Africa but it is absent in the rainforest of Mount Kilimanjaro national park. This is due to its habit of inhabiting the semiarid places of the African Savannah particularly near rivers and streams. For many year, snakes have been used as a medical symbol in an ancient Greek, biblical theory as well as from mythology, which extrapolated existences and usefulness of snakes even during the origin of life. As snakes have been presumed from different angles such as ecological view, biblical theory, mythology and whatever the source, snakes are victims of hate and are feared by many people. Some people go further and say “a good snake is a dead snake”! Snakes are killed for different reasons such as their poisons, flesh, skin or less information about them. Local people fear snakes because they are afraid of their bites which are mostly lethal. While the truth is that snakes venom is not primarily for attacking humans, the snake uses its venom to kill its prey and help it in digestion. Snakes bite or spit when they feel threatened, however, before doing so they produce warnings such as hissing, flattening brood hood, which is their way of saying: “stay away from me” as they are capable for detecting adrenal hormones since they are very sensitive to even faint vibrations on the ground. Some associate snakes with superstitious fears and allege that if you dream and watch snake visualization in your mind, it suggests that something bad was going to happen to you. However, they are some people who eat snakes and use their skins for producing handbags, belts and other products. In spite of snakes being associated with evil things, still snakes have crucial role that they play in the ecosystem. Small snakes eat harmful bugs while big snakes eat mice, rats, rodent small mammals which are agricultural pests. For example, black mambas eat rats that damage crops in the fields. Snakes venoms have medical properties. For example, venom from vipers has shown potential for breaking blood clots and treating stroke victims. Enzyme from cobras is used to cure Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases. Also snake venoms can be used in treating various cancers and is used to make creams that remove wrinkles. Snakes are also used as a tourist attraction. Many people cannot stand and look at snakes in their natural environments and the only way they can do so is through visits to snake farms and snake parks. In Tanzania, many local and foreign visitors visit Mesarani Snake Park in Arusha and Genesis Snake Park at Mikumi in Mororgroro Region to watch snakes at close quarters Moreover, in Mwanza, Geita and Shinyanga regions, snake are trained and dance with Wagoyangi (traditional dance). Such dances pull many people to watch tamed snakes. Snakes are, however, currently threatened of their existence as, whenever a snake is seen, it is beaten to death just like what the bible says. The population of snakes is dwindling as more land is turned for Agricultural, settlement and other land use plans. People must change their perception toward snakes and treat them as part of the human’s coexistence. Whenever incidents of biting by snakes occur, medical treatment should be sought as emergence. rstanslaus@yahoo.com