ABOUT a two-hour session of campaigning for Speaker's post in the Parliament here on Tuesday was a blend of pledges and humour, as candidates convinced MPs to vote for them. The race for the Speaker’s post began after the Parliament turned into a meeting for election as per the House's Standing Orders. Nine candidates were invited inside the debating chamber one by one by the Chairperson of the Election meeting, Mr William Lukuvi to campaign before the voters (MPs) for three minutes and field questions from MPs. Out of the nine candidates for the post, eight were not MPs. They were representing different opposition parties. The opposition candidates and their parties in brackets were Mr Abdullah Said (NRA), Eng Aivan Maganza (TLP), David Mwaijojele (CCK), Mr Georges Bussungu (ADA-TADEA), Mr Kunje Ngombale Mwiru (SAU), Ms Maimuna Kassim (ADC), Ndonge S. Ndonge (AAFP) and Mr Sadoun Khatibu (DP). The remaining one candidate was former Deputy Speaker, Dr Tulia Ackson from the ruling party, CCM, who would go on to make a clean sweep in the one-sided polls. Legislators, invited government leaders and other guests often burst into laughter as candidates from opposition parties briefly campaigned for votes. Mr Lukuvi began the exercise by inviting the first candidate, Mr Abdullah Mohammed Said from the NRA party to the floor. Mr Said started by introducing himself and informed the voters that he contested for Chake Chake constituency in the 2020 General Election but lost marginally. He pledged that if the MPs would elect him as new Speaker of the House, he would ensure that Tanzania's Parliament becomes the best in the continent. Mr Said added that the pillar would also become more efficient in supporting President Samia Suluhu Hassan to implement her duties. “I did not come here to participate but to win and I believe you are all very understanding, despite the fact that my party doesn’t have representation here in the Parliament, I ask you to give me all votes,” he concluded as the House broke into laughter. Then, Special-Seat MP Ester Bulaya stood to ask him to mention at least three standing orders that have been usually applied in the House meetings. Much to the delight of MPs and other guests, he replied: “Let me remind you that not only standing orders but the Parliament is also guided by the Constitution. However, these things have come abruptly and I was in upcountry regions…but these things are minor. I can go through them (standing orders) and grasp them, I have a sharp brain.” Another contender-- Eng Maganza promised to lead the Parliament by upholding laws and regulations to ensure proper supervision of the House’s activities. He was followed by Mr Mwaijojele, who pledged to bring unity and solidarity among lawmakers regardless of their diverse political parties. Mr Mwaijojele, who also happened to be a pastor, told the MPs that he would be praying for them and bring more blessings for the House if he was elected as Speaker. The next candidate, Mr Busungu, spoke softly that he has 40-year experience in development activities, saying the National Assembly needed a person like him, who has a revolutionary mind for development. The candidate from the SAU party, Mr Kunje Ngombale Mwiru bragged that he was a good opposition politician, who for years served five opposition parties. He assured that if elected as new Speaker, he would address challenges facing MPs including securing cars through loans, saying he would facilitate them with SUV vehicles to enable them serve their constituencies well. Another candidate, Mr Ndonge (AAFP) used over half of his three-minute time to hail President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s decision to allocate the Covid-19 relief funds to building of classrooms, something which he said has helped to address early marriages. “In the past, there were three selections. Pupils who passed to join secondary schools were selected in phases due to lack of classrooms but that situation is no longer there since construction of new classrooms,” he said. He added: “Sometimes, girls were married off after missing out chances to join secondary schools…after being married some of them found their names appear in the second or third selection which comes months later on after first selection.”