TANZANIAN artistes Sholo Mwamba and Saraphina Michael won the hearts of multinationals attending the ongoing Expo 2020 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). Their Tuesday’s performance was another great platform for the country's Bongo Flava and Singeli genres megastars at the global level stage whose audience are people from all over the universe also gathered there for business explorations. It was good to hear from Saraphina who after her performance took time to talk about natural beauties that Tanzania is endowed with such as Kilimanjaro Mountain and Serengeti National Park. The scope of advertising Tanzania escalated when a Singeli star Sholo joined Sarafina on the stage, a situation which touched the hearts of many people who attended the concert as they danced to support the performers on the stage. "We have come here to use arts and culture in promoting Tanzania. Today, the world has known that we have good music from Bongo Flava and Singeli artistes hence; this is what we all need to make our country known in every corner of the world,"Sarafina said. Also, Poet Mrisho Mpoto is among the Tanzanians singers who have been trusted to fly high the national colours in UAE as they use arts and culture to plaster Tanzania on the global face. In another development, the Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa has called on people to attend in large numbers at the coming Serengeti Music Festival slated for March 12th in Dodoma to see the potential that the country has. He said this recently in Dar es Salaam insisting that the biggest event bankrolled by the government, is aimed to nurture talents of artistes plus advertising various tourist attractions scattered around the country. He added that the stage will be shared by over 50 artistes of different genres in order to quench the thirty of the audience who will witness the festival as they differ in their preferences. "This festival is unique since it has the capacity to bring under one roof a variety of domestic singers and most importantly, we have branded it with the name 'Serengeti' to attract international attention," he said. He then urged those who will be included on the performers' list to thoroughly prepare in order to fulfill its intended target while elaborating Tanzania music legends will also be given a platform to showcase their golden skills