PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has formed a special nine-member team to investigate the recent killings in Mtwara and Kilindi District in Tanga region. The immediate formation of probe team follows the directives issued by President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Friday while speaking to the residents of Magu District in Mwanza region while on her way to Mara region to grace the climax of the 45th anniversary celebrations of Chama Cha Mapinduzi. “Based on what I have heard so far, the Police force has formed a committee to investigate the killings and eventually release a report. They cannot commit murder and then conduct inquiry into the crime themselves,” President Samia stated. “I have told the Prime Minister to form an impartial team to investigate the recent killings in Mtwara, in which seven police officers are accused of being the perpetrators of the heinous crime.” President Samia noted that they will await for the report from an impartial committee, and compare it with the Police Force’s document, before taking appropriate measures. The Head of State also warned the police to evaluate themselves in light of recent crimes, urging the Minister for Home Affairs to keep an eye on the recent disturbing police behaviour. “The committee should begin working today and finish its work within 14 days.” The Mtwara event occurred on January 5, 2022, and the Kilindi incident occurred on January 30, this year, said Mr Majaliwa. According to the Prime Minister, the Committee is made up of officers from the National Prosecution Office, the President’s Office, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), the Attorney General’s Office, and the Prime Minister’s Office. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa has instructed the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro to suspend high ranking Mtwara and Kilindi Police officers while the team he constituted is on duty. He named the officers as Mtwara Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mtwara Regional Crime Officer (RCO) and Mtwara Police Station’s Officer Commanding Station (OCS) where businessman Mussa Hamis (25) was allegedly killed and Assistant Superintendent of Police Greyson Mahembe allegedly committed suicide, saying, “These officers should also stand aside to create room for investigations by the team.” Furthermore, the Prime Minister has directed the Kilindi District Police Commander and the District Crime Officer to stand aside to allow the investigation to proceed smoothly. According to a police report, Mahembe was found hanging in custody on 22 January 2022. He had been remanded on suspicion of violating the country’s laws to extort money from Mr Hamis, before killing him and throwing his body in the bushes in Namgogori Village, Mtwara region. As per the report, Mahembe and other police officers did not report the incident to their superiors since they were aware that they had violated the country’s laws. “When questioned, Mahembe explained the full chronology of the incident and then accompanied detectives to the location where they had dumped Hamis body and his information was documented and matched with other evidence that had already been obtained,” according to a police report made available to the media. The accused seven police officers include Gilbert Kalanje, Charles Onyango, Bicolas Kisinza, John Msuya, Marco Mbota, Shiraz Ally Mkuka and Salum Juma Mbalu. The Officers have been arraigned at the Mtwara Residents’ Magistrate Court in connection with the killing of Hamisi in Mtwara after they (the police) allegedly took 70m/- away from him.