GOVERNMENT and Private Sector officials who attended a short course at the National Defence College have been urged to use the knowledge acquired to improve security in their respective areas. The call was made by Deputy Minister of State in President's Office, Regional Administration, and Local Government, David Silinde, when closing the short-term training course attended by officials from district level. "We believe that you have acquired sufficient knowledge and experience that will enable you to detect early security threats, assess their effects, and take appropriate actions earlier," said Silinde. Mr Silinde, equally urged the leaders to be good ambassadors at their workplaces, by addressing various challenges including new security threats in order to promote developments in the country. He also said, during the five-day course, the leaders learnt how to think and strategically evaluate and implement government policies, plans and guidelines, and demonstrate high-level of patriotism for the broader interests of the country. The minister also urged the leaders to use the skills and knowledge gained to show difference from those who failed to attend the training. In the course, the participants were provided with intellectual property skills, that they hope would be implemented at their workplaces, when they return back. Equally, he reminded them of the security situation in the country, saying there are some threats like Covid-19 amongst others to be addressed right from the grassroots to the national levels. He added: “The expectation of the government led by President Samia Suluhu Hassan is to equip leaders with the right knowledge that will help them to improve performance.” On his part, National Defense College (NDC) Principal, Major General Ibrahim Mhona, called upon the leaders to focus on issues related to security and development, adding that they are critical in the implementation of national policies, strategies, and plans. "In achieving these goals related to security and development, all leaders must adhere to work ethics, patriotism and put the national interest first," he added. Major General Mhona noted that the college will continue running such short courses to reach a wider target audience with the aim equipping them with the right skills. "The main goal is to accelerate the success and development of our nation… so we will bring more Tanzanians to the college to get training that will be useful to the nation," he pointed out. In a related development, he thanked the government for continuing to support the institution, recognising its significant contribution in the provision of skills and knowledge to various leaders in the national interest. Representing the participants in the course, Ikungi District Commissioner, Jerry Muro pledged to implement the acquired training skills on returning to his workplaces. "We believe that the knowledge gained will help more operations in our midst and as well assist the government to ensure security is maintained for development to continue taking place in our country,” he added.