VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT) development across the globe has been a major success story in taxation over the last half century, but even with its long existence there is still need for more improvement in its administration globally. In Tanzania VAT is regulated under the Value Added Tax Act [CAP.148 R.E. 2019]. Value added taxes (VAT) and other consumption taxes are generally designed to be indirect taxes. While they are generally intended to tax the final consumption of goods and services, they are collected from the suppliers of these goods and services rather than directly from the consumers. The consumers bear the burden of these taxes, in principle, as part of the market price of the goods or services purchased. Two categories of consumption taxes are generally distinguished (OECD, 2013):- a) General taxes on goods and services, consisting of VAT and its equivalent in several jurisdictions, sales taxes and other general taxes on goods and services. b) Taxes on specific goods and services, consisting primarily of excise taxes, customs and import duties, and taxes on specific services (e.g. taxes on insurance premiums and financial services). We will focus mainly on VAT, which is the primary form of consumption tax for many countries around the world. The combination of the global spread of VAT and the rapid globalization of economic activity, has resulted in increased interaction between VAT systems, and the appetite of increasing VAT rates but also have raised the profile of VAT as a significant issue in cross-border trade Main design features of VAT - Overarching purpose of VAT – A broad-based tax on final consumption The term VAT is used here to cover all value added taxes, by whatever name, in whatever language, they are known. Note, for instance, that many countries refer to their value added taxes as a “goods and services tax” (GST) (e.g. Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand and Singapore). While there is considerable diversity in the structure of the VAT systems currently in place, most of these systems are grounded on certain fundamental design principles at least in theory if not in practice. The overarching purpose of a VAT is to impose a broad-based tax on consumption, which is understood to mean final consumption by households. In principle only private individuals, as distinguished from businesses, engage in the consumption at which VAT is targeted. In practice, however, many VAT systems impose VAT burden not only on final household consumption, but also on various entities that are involved in non-business activities or in VAT-exempt activities. In such situations, VAT can be viewed alternatively as treating such entities as if they were end consumers, or as “input taxing” the supplies made by such entities on the presumption that the burden of the VAT imposed will be passed on in the prices of the outputs of those non-business activities The central design feature of a VAT – Staged collection process The central design feature of a VAT, and the feature from which it derives its name, is that the tax is collected through a staged process. Each business (taxable person) in the supply chain is responsible for collecting the tax on its outputs (supplies) and remitting the proportion of tax corresponding to its margin, i.e. the value added, in a particular tax period. This means that the taxable person remits the difference between the VAT imposed on its taxed outputs (output tax) and the VAT imposed on its taxed inputs (input tax) for this period. Thus, the tax is in principle collected on the “value added” at each stage of production and distribution. This central design feature of the VAT, coupled with the fundamental principle that the burden of the tax should not rest on businesses, requires a mechanism for relieving businesses of the burden of the VAT they pay when they acquire goods or services. There are two principal approaches to implementing the staged collection process while relieving businesses of the VAT burden. ➢ Under the invoice-credit method, each taxable person charges VAT at the rate specified for each supply and passes to the customer an invoice showing the amount of tax charged. If the customer is also a taxable person, it will be able to credit that input tax against the output tax charged on its sales, each being identified at the transaction level, remitting the balance to the tax authorities or receiving a refund of any excess credits. ➢ Under the subtraction method, the tax is levied directly on an accounts-based measure of value added, which is determined for each business by subtracting the taxable person’s allowable expenditure on inputs for the tax period from taxable outputs for that period and applying the tax rate to the resulting amount. Almost all jurisdictions that operate VAT use the invoice-credit method, the Japanese system being the most notable example of a subtraction method consumption tax. VAT exemptions create an important exception to the neutrality of VAT. When a supply is VAT-exempt, this means that no output tax is charged on the supply and that the supplier is not entitled to credit the related input tax. Many VAT systems apply exemptions for activities that are hard to tax (the exemption for financial services being the most notable example) and/ or to pursue distributional objectives (agricultural and fuel exemptions and exemptions for basic health and education are commonly encountered). One adverse consequence of VAT exemptions is that they create “cascading” when applied in a business-to-business (B2B) context. The business making an exempt supply can be expected to pass on the uncreditable input tax in the price of this supply, while this “hidden tax” can subsequently not be credited by the recipient business and hence making the supply more expensive. Key Takeaways • Taxes on goods and services are commonly referred to as consumption taxes. • Value-added tax is an example of a consumption tax. • A consumption tax is charged when consumers spend money, while an income tax is assessed on earned income. It should be noted that a consumption tax is charged to people when they spend money whereas an income tax is levied on people when they earn money or when they receive interest, dividends, or capital gains from their investments etc. Ideally, a properly designed consumption tax system would reward savers and penalize spenders. • You only incur VAT on the purchase of goods or services. With VAT, consumers are taxed based on how much they consume rather than how much they add to the economy as opposed to Income tax. • VAT stands for Value Added Tax. • VAT registered traders must file a VAT return every 20th day of the following month.