PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged Regional Commissioners countrywide to continue fast tracking coordination of the Population and Housing Census preparations. “Let’s all run at the same pace so we can accomplish this exercise swiftly…Tanzanians are behind us and eagerly anticipate the population and housing census, which will take place in August this year,” he stated. Mr Majaliwa issued the order during a virtual working session with regional and district leaders on population and housing census preparations, yesterday. The Premier stated at the meeting that the postcodes allocation exercise should also be closely monitored to be completed on schedule. “Like the programmes developed through the National Development Plan and the fight against Covid-19, this exercise should be executed on an operational basis and for a set period,” he said. In addition, Prime Minister Majaliwa lauded the Regional and District Commissioners for their efforts in overseeing government operations, particularly the fulfillment of the CCM manifesto and President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s directives. Retired Speaker Anne Makinda, the Census Commissioner for Mainland Tanzania, said the procedure is being carried out in partnership with leaders at all levels, from the region to the villages. She expressed gratitude to the leaders and people for their cooperation. Commenting, the Commissioner of Census for Zanzibar, Ambassador Mohamed Haji Hamza, expressed satisfaction with the pilot census conducted in the regions and underlined that efforts should continue to guarantee that the targets set are met. The meeting was attended by the Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office Policy, Parliament and Coordination, Dr Pindi Chana, Minister of State Prime Minister’s Office Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disability, Professor Joyce Ndalichako and Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Innocent Bashungwa. Others are the Minister of Lands and Human Settlement Development, Dr Angeline Mabula, Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Nape Nnauye and Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning Hamad Hassan Chande along with various government officials. This year’s census will be the sixth after the Union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar in 1964, with earlier exercises taking place in 1967, 1978, 1988, 2002, and 2012. More than just a headcount, the census gives a snapshot of Tanzania, especially on how many people are living in the country by age, sex and geographic location as well as other key socioeconomic aspects. According to National Bureau Statistics (NBS), there will be three copies of questionnaires thus calling on the community to collaborate for the exercise to accomplish its purpose. The main questionnaire will be for households, the second one will be a community questionnaire that will inquire about the services available in the area and the final questionnaire is for homeless people, travellers, patients and people staying in hotels on the night of the census day and there will be clerks every hamlet. The questions in the household level questionnaire have increased from 64 in 2012 to 94. The 2002 census questionnaire contained 34 questions. A pilot census was conducted in August last year to determine if NBS officials are well acquainted with the technology to conduct the national census next year