LEGISLATORS on Monday raised concern over acute shortage of teachers in public schools in the country, saying that the situation was threatening the development of education in the country. Speaking during the questions and answers session in the House, the MPs demanded for the government’s statement on how it was planning to address the challenge affecting the key sector. In her basic question Tecla Ungele (Special Seats, CCM) said that Lindi Region was facing an acute shortage of teachers in its public schools, something which affects learning and the performance of students in national examinations. She wanted to know the government’s plans to recruit enough teachers to cover the current gap and ensure that children access quality education for their future development. Responding, the Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Dr Festo Dugange acknowledged that the country was facing shortage of teachers but insisted that the government was taking measures to ensure more teachers are dispatched to various areas in the country. He said the government conducted an assessment to find out the actual demand of teachers in the country and found that the Lindi Region alone had a shortage of 1,216 teachers for primary schools and 2898 teachers for secondary schools. “The region currently has a total of 3,544 teachers in primary schools and 1682 teachers in its secondary schools, so it is true that the region has a huge challenge of shortage of the important professionals but the government is doing all it can to mitigate the problem,” he said. To help reduce the problem, the government has directed District Executive Directors (DEDs) across the country to ensure that they conduct a balance of the teachers by putting priority in the areas which face acute shortage, especially schools in remote areas,” the deputy minister stated. Ukerewe MP Joseph Mkundi also said that the Ukerewe District in Mwanza Region was also facing a shortage of over 1500 teachers. Dr Dugange replied that the ministry has also requested a permit from the government to hire 10,000 teachers for primary and secondary schools in the country. He added that most of the teachers employed will be allocated to the schools with critical shortage of the professionals. He further said that the government was also working to introduce an electronic system to recognise teachers, who volunteer in various schools in the country so as to prioritise them in employment opportunities. The deputy minister also said that the system will also help to get and hire enough teachers to volunteer in the schools and thus help address the gaps in the schools. “Teachers will now be allowed to shift after staying in the school for three years, we want to ensure that teachers employed stay in their workplaces to support provision of quality education to the children,” he asserted.