UN Women and the Finish Embassy in Tanzania have signed an agreement worth 9 million US dollars (about 19bn/-) aimed at strengthening women and girls' meaningful participation, leadership and economic rights at local levels in Tanzania. The four-year agreement was signed in Dar es Salaam recently by UN Women Representative to Tanzania Ms Hodan Addou and Ambassador of Finland to Tanzania Ms Riitta Swan. Ms Addou said after the signing ceremony that the program will seek to advance women's leadership and participation in decision-making processes at the local level, with implementation focusing on 18 districts in six Tanzanian regions, including Arusha, Dar es Salaam and the coastal region, Lindi, Mtwara, and Singida. "It also intends to improve women and girls' economic rights to meet the government's commitments made at the Generation Equality Forum last year,” she added. Women continue to be underrepresented in leadership and decision-making positions across the country, she said, owing in part to discriminatory social and cultural norms, labour division, and everyday practices that make it difficult for women to take leadership and participate equally in their communities. Women, according to her, are frequently confronted with economic and time poverty and are less likely to have access to information and technology, limiting their ability to participate in leadership and leverage the economic opportunities and social capital that many of their male counterparts and competitors have. "Through this project, the Embassy of Finland and UN Women Tanzania will work to address these challenges in collaboration with the Ministry of Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups, Local Government Authorities and other relevant government institutions, as well as women and men who are change agents at the district, ward, and village levels, "MS Addou explained. "Female local government officers, elected councillors, and leaders of women's organisations and networks are essential partners and beneficiaries of the initiative,” she noted. Gender equality is a major concern in Finland, according to Ms Swan, therefore they decided to finance the project to ensure that women in Tanzania participate in local decision-making. "The purpose of this project is to break stereotypes on a local level, and we believe that as a result of this project, we will see more advances in our targeted locations," she explained. Up until the project's conclusion in 2026, the holistic approach and strategies will include promoting gender-responsive norms, behaviours, and practices within communities; strengthening the capacities of women leaders at the local level; improving the collection and use of sex and disability responsive data; and enhancing women's economic rights, including piloting innovative measures such as childcare services to address the disproportionate share in the workplace. Another strategy is to recognize women and girls with disabilities as a vital stakeholder group whose participation and economic empowerment must be enhanced.