THE Global Education Link (GEL) has urged parents and guardians who wish to send their children to abroad universities, but face financial constraints to apply for free interest loans. GEL Loan Officer, Mr Musa Sultani, said that his agency facilitates free interest education finance to students who wish to study abroad from certificate, diploma, first degree and PhD levels through the agreement it entered with AMANA Bank for the purpose. Mr Sultani revealed this on Saturday to parents and students at the Universities Exhibitions at Mnazi Mmoja Grounds in Dar es Salaam. He said the programme to provide loans for students who wish to study abroad started in 2018, noting that the agency provides 50 up to 70 per cent loans to the applicants adding that they are pleased with the programme because so far there are no loan defaulters. Mr Sultani said in 2018 they received 150 loan applications but only 80 qualified because of some applications were not properly documented. "We are happy to announce that majority of our loan beneficiaries repay the loans smoothly so we welcome others with financial difficulties to use this opportunity so that they can send their children abroad for studies," he said He said if the application form is well filled the applicant can get the loan within 48 hours. For his part, Amana Bank Public Relations Officer, Aziz Sangali, said the bank took part in the exhibitions to inform the general public about the available opportunity. He said for those who need the loans should meet GEL officials who to get information on how they can apply and the required documents. "Parents or guardians must see GEL officials for consultations on type of courses their children want to study abroad, university and country they prefer to go and thereafter check the documents required and if they are all okay GEL will submit them to Amana Bank for the payment," he said He said most of the applicants prefer to take loan not exceeding 25m/-  and they have been repaying without any problem. According to Sangali, the bank allow them to pay in installment within eight month and they are given grace period of two months after loan is delivered to the applicant. "The loan is insured so if someone gets permanent disability or is dead the insurance cover the remaining loan," said Sangali Some universities taking part at ongoing exhibitions are from Iran, India, Georgia, Cyprus, Turkey, United States of America, UK, Mauritius, Dubai, Poland, Australia, Canada and Malaysia.