WITH its Kijana Inuka Project that loosely translates as ‘Youth wake up Project’ under the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom (FNF)policy of without education, freedom does not withstand the test of time…without freedom-there is no good education, it advocates that education and freedom of choice of educational paths are the foundation on which every person is empowered to develop his/her talents for the benefit of all and making sure that training for the youth in skills share is reaching all sorts of youths in Tanzania. In Dar es Salaam particular in Bonyokwa area (Ilala District) Teresia John is a live testimony of how FNF training has empowered and raised her livelihood to the extent that she is an ambassador of women youths (read empowerment) conduit of addressing poverty in the society. She sheds light on how the training opened her eyes on keeping records of her business (sales, capital and profit) to the extent that paying taxes in her economic activity was not being seen as a burden. She adds: “We learnt a lot on how to keep records and that has helped me to trace my expenditures, project next move, keep records of new customers, and monitor sales to the extent that I go home with 20,000/- everyday as profit in comparison to the days before the training.” Concentrating on second hand clothes’ sales, Ms Teresia advises fellow youths not to wait to be employed, but venture into various businesses, so long as they are genuine and legal means of eking out a living. In her business, the youth points out that the government has created a peaceful environment, where any person can run her business activity in any part of the country and what matters is paying taxes. In the course, she says pays 500/- on daily basis as taxes to the Municipal authority that is charged for cleanliness purposes and that is what any youth can afford without feeling the burden of paying taxes. However, with the cost of life increasing, she appeals to the government to intervene on their behalf so that they also get loan support from banks, which only tend to concentrate on big businesses entrepreneurs. With training, she says FNF was raising the livelihoods of the youth with basic technical and entrepreneurial skill to the rural poor so as to enable them take up income generating activities (self/wage employment) and this in a way keeps them off from idling and engaging in crime. The above comment may also be said to be the reason why FNF supported them to be able to pay loans through their business In Mbagala, another part of the city FNF picked on Faridi Kalembo selling Irish potatoes, whose activity after acquiring the skills has enabled him to increase the number of bags packed with the crop he orders from upcountry (Mbeya and Makambako) to rise from 10 to 20-30 on daily basis. He adds that in every packed sack acquired at 90,000/- he manages to get a profit of 8,000/- to 10,000/- and this makes his business become stable and sustaining to the extent that he also engages (read employs) some youth upcountry in the business. On how the training has enlightened him on keeping records and getting new customers as well as maintaining the former ones, he notes that with new technology in the social media, he goes to the extent monitoring and tracking his sales, and home delivery of his products, adding that the practice increases his customers’ numbers. For him to become more sustainable in business, he urges also fellow youth to respect any coin (money) made from any economic activity, because it is what builds into millions of shillings they might be looking for as business capital to get. On his part, Elisha Jaffey at Kigamboni in another part of the city was met and trained by FNF on best way to do business in his sales of fruits namely avocado, bananas, watermelons, and oranges among others. It was learnt that he was stable in business after attending the training to the extent that his name was everywhere in the surroundings. He says: “Most of my customers are students from Mwalimu Nyerere Institute, who prefer to buy fruits from a clean and hygienic place. My place is considered hygienic because applied skills I acquired from FNF to maintain it. I also learnt a lot on keeping records of sales, monitor sales, paying taxes and networking with customers and these collectively have made my profit jump from 30,000/- to 40,000/-, something I rarely collected and many people in formal employments are not making.” Commenting on the training, Business Incubator, Kai Mollel focusing on SMEs development and Special Digital Communication said: “Following the persistent trend of unemployment, we have been urging young people to start thinking of entrepreneurship as a career path and change their mind-set from job seeking mentality to self-employment. “Entrepreneurship is important for the future of their economy and country…we build businesses and create jobs, thus providing solutions to social problems. “This project is aimed at recognising and supporting young entrepreneurs, who will build successful businesses and shape the future of Tanzania’s economy. “They have original ideas and others in early stage start-ups and with such skills imparted from our training, it helps the youth to fight poverty by sustaining in business and growth. “In both challenges we seek what we call entrepreneurial traits in the individual youth to see whether they are committed and serious about launching their projects.