For many years now the relationship I have with my boss has never improved, and I can tell you comfortably that whichever way you look at it, it carries a mutual feeling. I always blame my boss for believing that a grown up human being like yours truly who is married to a warlike woman and who has terrible children can survive on what he calls my paycheck. I always tell him that the difference between him and the colonial slave drivers is just his ugly tie, which to me looks like a rope my mother used to tie our she goat. On several occasions I have accused him of working tirelessly to make sure that me and my small clan are dispatched to the pearly gates because of starvation. On his part, that fellow who signs my measly paycheck and insists that I should call him ‘boss’ has made it an open secret that I am a lazy, good for nothing employee who should be paid less than what he pays me. Anyway, because of my insensitive boss who on several occasions has been accused of being a sadist, it has caused conflict in my family, including my old mother. “Son, why don’t you try and get a job like other children's? I always pray to God so that one day you will see the importance of getting a job,” she always tells me every time she sees me. I try telling her that I already have a job, but all these years I have never been able to convince her that journalism is a serious career. “My son, when others are carrying briefcases to work you carry a pen and a notebook, and wait for people to make a mistake so that you can write about it, and you say that you are working? Look at Sharrif, your former classmate, he has a serious job working in a local bank somewhere in town,” she told me over the phone yesterday, and I almost told her that the fellow she was referring to was fired two years ago because of theft and he is currently as broke as a church mouse. I can stand it when my old mother accuses me of refusing to work, because she has no idea what journalism is all about, but when the person who is supposed to be my closest ally decides to jump in the bandwagon, it can really work you up. You see, the mother of my clan, just like my old mother, can practically send you to the looney bin by sticking on one topic and trying to hammer it in your head. A few hours ago I just kicked out members of her church, including their pastor, a fellow who looks like a retired car thief, after they started castling out demons of unemployment in my house. You see, I always believe that I am a very patient fellow, that is why my wife, Mama Boyi can afford to treat me like a convict in my own house. She knows that I can withstand any treatment she directs towards me, apart from inviting members of her church in my home, because those people claim to be enemies of the devil, but I believe some of them are related. I had just returned home and was looking forward to relaxing in my bedroom, when I came across a good number of pairs of shoes at my doorstep, which means that I had visitors, many visitors. I found my wife busy serving her ‘brethren’ in the living room, and I saw the retired car thief who says he is a pastor chewing on a healthy drumstick which resembled the one from the chicken I had brought the previous day. I went straight to the kitchen and confirmed my fears, the chicken I had brought for me and my family was at that moment lying in the belly of that fellow who has managed to convince people like my wife that he is a pastor. I was furious as I headed to the bedroom, and I could hear my wife telling her church members that they should not mind my childish tantrums. I decided that I will deal with the mother of my can later when her hungry friends leave my house, but I changed my mind a few minutes later when they started to pray. After singing several loud songs accompanied by drums and ululations, the fellow who had consumed the juicy drumstick and who has convinced people that he is a pastor started praying in a loud voice. “Father in heaven we bring before you your long suffering servant who welcomed us in her home, despite challenges of living with an unemployed drunkard,” he shouted, and I could hear the others shouting ‘Amen’, and I could swear the voice of my wife was the loudest. I did not believe that those seditious words were being uttered in my own house, but my blood started boiling dangerously when that pastor who looks like a retired car thief continued with his prayers. “Jehovah you said that you will bless the work of our hands….bless the work of this woman who lives like a widow in her own house, without support from the man who has abandoned her and her children, and decided to get married to any brown, frothy bottle…” I did not wait for them to scream ‘Amen’, I charged into the living room and went straight for the retired car thief who had consumed the healthy drumstick that I had bought for my family. His eyes were still closed, and by the time he opened them, he found himself flying through the door. I think that is when he discovered that a human body can bounce on concrete, even after eating a healthy drumstick