LOCAL industry players in the insurance sub-sector in the country are gearing up to tap on opportunities to be generated through execution of strategic infrastructure projects through the issuance of covers for the ventures. The President of Tanzania Insurance Brokers Association (TIBA), Mr Amir Kiwanda, made the revelation in Dar es Salaam on Thursday at a news conference ahead of the association’s sixth Annual General Meeting (AGM) slated for between next Wednesday and Saturday at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC). The annual meeting will be held under the theme; “Harnessing innovation, technology and partnership for scaling up sustainability and progress,”. It is expected to attract over 200 participants from Tanzania and other member states of the East African Community (EAC). The expected participants at the annual gathering include insurance companies, brokers, banks as well as loss assessors and adjustors, among other players in the industry. “Tenders for some of the strategic projects have been advertised in newspapers and since last year we started preparations on how best we can make use of opportunities in their implementation. “Just two weeks ago we had a meeting between insurance players and the industry regulator (Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority) on benefits to be accrued from the projects,” Mr Kiwanda explained during the news conference. Apart from the ongoing construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), the players are also eyeing extending their services to the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP) from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga port in Tanzania. The other strategic project includes the 30 US billion dollars (70tri/-) Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant in Lindi Region whose initial framework Agreement (HGA) was signed and witnessed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan in June, this year. A representative from the Tanzania Reinsurance Company (TAN-RE), Ms Eliada Gityamwi, explained further that insurance companies and brokers in the country are well prepared to benefit from the strategic projects. “Participation of local players in these projects will play a crucial role in expanding the insurance market in Tanzania and ensure premiums which are paid as insurance cover are retained in the country,” she stated. Ms Gityamwi expounded that TAN-RE works with over 200 insurance companies from about 40 countries in Africa, Asia and Middle East. In an interview with ‘Daily News’ in March the Commissioner of Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), Dr Baghayo Saqware, said a favourable business environment has attracted more players and the introduction of new products in the insurance industry during the past year. Dr Saqware said then that the regulator has so far registered over 1,000 players in the industry including insurance companies, brokers, assessors, agents and reinsurance companies.