TANZANIA has signed an agreement with the government of Brazil and the World Food Programme (WFP) to implement the ambitious ‘Beyond Cotton Project’ which seeks to help increase income of smallholder farmers and improve their food and nutritional security. In the signing of the project documents, the government was represented by the Assistant Director of Policy and Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Gungu Mbavu on behalf of the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Andrew Massawe while Brazil was represented by the its ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Antonio Cesar. WFP facilitated and supported the entire process during the ‘Beyond Cotton Project’ development. In his speech during the signing event, PS Massawe paid tribute to the Government of Brazil for continuing to finance the project. “This project is the continuation of the previous project dubbed ‘Cotton Victoria’ which resulted in an increase of yield from an average of 400 kilogrammes to about 1,200 kilogrammes per acre and I believe this support will further contribute to the development of cotton sub-sector in Tanzania,’’ said the PS in his speech read on his behalf by Mr Mbavu. According to the PS, in Tanzania, cotton is among the strategic crops grown in 17 regions countrywide and that the crop is being grown by 500,000 households in the rural areas as a source of income. “This project will enhance the cotton sub-sector development at large and therefore we thank the Brazilian government and WFP for coming up with this project support,’’ he noted. According to Mr Massawe, Tanzania is committed to increase production of cotton from 250,000 tonnes to one million tonnes by 2025/2026 adding that the technology that will be introduced by Beyond Cotton Project will be adopted in other cotton growing areas and hence contribute to the implementation and achievement of the target. The project coverage areas are Magu, Kwimba and Misungwi districts of Mwanza region and it is jointly implemented by the ministry in partnership with the Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), the Tanzania Cotton Board (TCB), the Brazilian Cooperation Agency from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (ABC/MRE), WFP Centre of Excellence against Hunger in Brazil and WFP Tanzania office. According to WFP’s Centre of Excellence against Hunger Project Officer, Joelcio Carvalho,  the ‘Beyond Cotton Project’ is a 20 month project which addresses issues of production and value addition to cotton by-products, the improvement of intercropping systems for cotton with a view to improving the nutrition of traditional crops and the food and nutritional security of the individuals involved. Speaking at the event TCB Director General, Mr Marco Mtunga said the project will help smallholder farmers in the country to have the best seedlings hence get quality products that will help them to improve their income. TARI Director General, Mr Geoffrey Mkamilo said in the project, his organization would provide technical project implementation in technology and innovation, particularly on variety development, good agriculture practices, and multiple cropping systems of cotton and associated crops that have significant nutritive values along the value chain. WFP Deputy Country Director, Brian Bogart said: “Agriculture is the driver of food security and nutrition as well as an engine of poverty reduction that is why WFP decided to join into this crucial project.”