TALK of the Kigoma Joint Programme (KJP) definitely you are talking about the World Food Programme (WFP) supported initiave that is focusing on six themes namely:-sustainable energy and environment, youth and women’s economic empowerment, violence against women and children, education, agriculture and WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) in Kigoma Region. And physically landing in the area regardless of Kibondo, Kakonko, Kasulu or Uvinza District, you will be met by the World Food Programme, the food-assistance branch of the United Nations, achievements in bringing development to the farmers, especially those cultivating beans and maize, which are now the talk of the region that right now they have a flourishing ready market for their crops. Behold, despite the Kigoma Joint Programme being implemented by some 16 organizations, most of which are United Nations, WFP support has dominated the local farmers as a way of thanks giving to the village surrounding the camps for peaceful co-existence. According to Michael Bisama, Head of Programme WFP Kasulu through the programme, they have been involved in issues that provide training to farmers to cultivate crops in with modern farming practices, education to know the right time to harvest and what to do to keep with quality that is acceptable at International standards. In the course, WFP did not stop there but provided funds for the renovation of large warehouses after realizing that after every harvesting season, farmers lack safe places to store their produce. In particular, the warehouses have been built in various areas in Kasulu, Kibondo, Kakonko and Uvinza District and to crown it all- assure farmers of standard and modern storage silos of their produce. In addition to repairing warehouses, WFP has also purchased special machines that farmers use to harvest maize including the threshing ones. WFP through this project built areas where farmers use to dry their produce, especially beans and maize, and equally, purchased for them some crop drying tarpaulins and distributed through their agricultural marketing co-operatives (AMCOS), which unite smallholder farmers to have access to inputs and other services including storage, processing and marketing of their produce. As if that is not enough WFP believe in unity, solidarity and networking among other things and thus motivates farmers to join AMCOS so to make it easier for them collectively to plan their agricultural plans. In the process, the WFP has raised the livelihood of farmers, especially those in the project areas and a case study is for 24,000 farmers finding ready market for their produce at good prices. Witnessing the activities of the WFP on the ground, a team of journalists took to Kigoma Region and met different farmers in their AMCOS groups, where they displayed the machines donated to them, built warehouses and drying places for produce like beans and maize. While the farmers are enjoying in the programme, the Kigoma Regional Government has also clearly stated that the KJP has brought development to the area. Elaborating, Kigoma Regional Administrative Secretary Rashid Mchata explained how farmers in the region and especially in the districts have been reached by the project’s benefits. He added: “So WFP through the Kigoma Joint Programme has helped with various things, especially in the agricultural sector…they have helped in the construction of warehouses. “In Nyakitoto, Kigadye, and Kurugongo villages, the WFP in Kasulu District Council has helped to renovate some warehouses and they are supporting our farmers. "They have also helped to strengthen and establish co-operatives as you know the co-operatives in our region were not well formed, so WFP has been very helpful in establishing them, especially the AMCOS.” Mchata added that WFP has helped to link and unite cooperatives with markets, making them become more market conscious when they want to sell their produce, adding: “In the Nyakitonto area WFP has been able to buy red bean products instantly after every harvesting season. “WFP itself has also been a buyer of farmers' produce…as you know they (immigrants in camps) have been cooking in refugee camps, their food demand must be addressed. "In an effort to uplift the farmers, WFP has successfully procured maize harvesting machines for various groups. They have also assisted extension officers to coordinate the activities in farms, generally, we are grateful to Kigoma region for the presence of stakeholders especially WFP in the agricultural areas,” he pointed out. He explained that these organizations have each taken their own role, noting that there are those who deal with education, water, gender issues to address violence in refugee camps as well as in the communities surrounding them. "There are organizations that help, educate children who lack education and support the agricultural sector and in addition, the Kigoma Joint Programme is coming to an end, but we pray the second phase will implement what has not been achieved in the pipeline, especially through more training to the farmers,” he said.