Somalia President, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud has requested heads of East African Community (EAC) partner states to join the trade bloc. He made the request on Thursday evening during the high-level retreat for the summit on the EAC common market held in Arusha, Tanzania, saying it had been Somalia’s long desire to be part of the Community as he promised his country to deliver potential contributions. “Our longtime dream is to be part of the great community and we are pursuing the dream to be realized. Somalia belongs to East Africa through business, community and other means. Our people are available everywhere,” President Mohamud said. Additionally, he thanked the various countries in the East African Community for their support and help rendered to the Somalia people and the nation during difficult times. “I would also take this opportunity to thank you for the three decades time that Somalia was in a difficult situation and how your countries, your governments, your people have supported the Somalia people by accommodating them in your great countries by sending your boys and girls there to support the Somali people and die for the Somalia course inside Somalia…We have your boys there defending Somalia.,” he noted. April this year, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) formally joined the East African Community and if Somalia is permitted to join the bloc, EAC will have eight member states in total. Speaking earlier, the EAC’s Chairman who doubles as the President of Republic of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta explained efforts done by the community in bringing the nations together through connecting the bloc through infrastructures. “My administration has been very keen to see the growth of infrastructure. Today in Kenya we are linked to Tanzania through borders including Namanga, Taveta and very soon President Samia will be joining her counterpart in Kenya to start that cross that will link Lamu Malindi all the way down to Bagamoyo and Dar es Salaam. We are linked with Uganda through Malaba…,” the EAC Chairman stated.  