PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has directed the Attorney General (AG) to review the Public Procurement Act and Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Act to reduce unnecessary red-tape in implementation of development and investment projects. “In some instances, these legislations take us backward instead of moving us forward. It is a high time these laws are reviewed in order to hasten decision making in undertaking investment projects. We should not be slaves of our own laws,” Ms Samia directed. Ms Samia expressed concerns that the two legislations have been hampering smooth implementation of projects and discouraging potential investors due to unnecessary red-tape. The Head of State made the directives at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Monday, shortly after witnessing the signing of two contracts including one for construction of lot four of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) stretching 168 kilometres between Tabora and Isaka. The other contract was between Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) and Korea National Railway (KORAIL) for capacity building of Tanzanians, who will be tasked with operating railway services once the SGR is completed. Construction of the Tabora-Isaka section which is part of phase one of SGR between Dar es Salaam and Mwanza covers a total of 1,219 kilometres and will cost 900.1 million US dollars (about 2.094tri/-). “There is a need to hasten decision making in undertaking projects, for example, if you can secure a contractor to implement a project at reasonable costs through single sourcing, why should we go through the lengthy and sometimes costly competitive bidding?” she wondered. She added; “I have seen the Attorney General in this gathering, you should ensure these laws are reviewed to smoothen investments and execution of development projects,” Ms Samia was however, impressed that during her one-year tenure in office, the sixth phase government has been able to accomplish procurement of contractors for construction of the first phase of SGR between Dar es Salaam and Mwanza. She attributed her foreign trips abroad as among catalysts for securing funds for undertaking the mega project, noting further that her government is still working around the clock to solicit funds for construction of phase two of SGR. Phase two of SGR will cover about 1,010 kilometres between Tabora and Kigoma, where it will be extended to Uvinza-Msongati and Gitega in Burundi where it will be connected to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). “Once connected to land-linked countries like Burundi, DRC, Rwanda, Uganda and South Sudan, we will have access to a market of over 300 million people in the region,” she stated. President Samia challenged the private sector in Tanzania to tap on opportunities to be created by the mega project, which will connect Dar es Salaam port and major towns in the country and other neighbouring countries. On the other hand, Ms Samia urged the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to improve efficiency in handling of cargo since the harbour is an important gateway for Tanzania’s land-linked countries and the world, particularly Asian countries. The Head of State also tasked TRC to put in place a strategic business plan, to ensure that sections of the SGR become operational by June, next year. “I have directed funds to be released for purchase of locomotives and wagons. To start with, the project will operate using second-hand facilities but it will later acquire brand new equipment,” she explained. Upon completion of the first phase, travel time between Dar es Salaam and Mwanza will be significantly reduced from between 17 and 18 hours being used by buses to just eight hours while cost of transporting cargo is expected to decrease by 40 per cent. Earlier, the Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa, said the first phase of the project will cost a total of 16.7tri/-. “Procurement process for the second phase is in the pipeline and we have already signed agreements with Burundi and DRC on extension of the railroad to their countries. “A feasibility study is currently underway for extension of the SGR to the neighbouring countries,” he explained. The Director General of TRC, Mr Masanja Kadogosa said the government has already paid the contractor 6.4tri/- out of the 16.7tri/-, which is meant for the first phase of the project. Mr Kadogosa explained on the other hand that the government has resorted to single sourcing to save cost and at the same time subject the contractor to lump sum contracts, which gives no room for variations of costs in implementation of the projects. “The lump sum contracts have enabled the government to save 2.9tri/-, which would have been variation costs caused by increased prices of fuel and other construction materials,” he explained. For his part, the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Mr Amos Makalla, pointed to the fact that smooth and efficient operation of SGR will highly depend on the port of Dar es Salaam for handling cargo for local markets as well as land-linked neighbouring countries. Mr Makalla showered praises on the sixth-phase government for availing funds for improvement of facilities at the harbour, which has eventually increased the volume of consignments and revenues.   Ends/Anderson …………………………………………………………………………..     