ZANZIBAR President, Dr Hussein Mwinyi has expressed commitment to continue addressing challenges facing the education sector in efforts to boost students' performance. Dr Mwinyi made the remarks on Friday in an event to congratulate best students in 2021 Form Four and 2022 Form Six national examinations where he awarded full scholarship to 30 best students. "The government will continue to address challenges facing the sector, including overcrowding, shortage of   well equipped laboratories, computers and science and mathematics teachers," he said. President Mwinyi directed respective ministries to cooperate with stakeholders in discussing and proposing ways of improving education in the isles. "The government is eagerly waiting for your recommendations, and we will make sure that we work on them in order to improve the situation," he said. He further said that his government will also continue to invest in education by improving learning environment and motivating students by awarding those who perform well. “The national examination results for both Form IV and VI released this year (2022) impressed us and it indicates good progress in the education sector,” said Dr Mwinyi. He also said that the government will provide laptops to all students who scored division one. “Getting division one is not an easy task, we who studied in Tanzania know that these students have done extra work, so the government has seen the need to congratulate and award them in order to motivate others to study hard," he said. The students who benefited from the scholarship are required to apply for Bachelor Degree in universities or higher learning institutions within the country. “As the government, we’re determined to ensure that more students join universities,” he said, adding that it is also contained in the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) election manifesto of 2020-2025. Zanzibar Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Ms Lela Mohamed Mussa commended Dr Mwinyi for his countless efforts to scale up education in the Isles. In 2018, scholarships were awarded to 30 best students followed by 60 in 2019 and climbed to one-hundred in 2020 before dropping to 20 last year (2021). Ms Mussa said “I urge students, parents and teachers to make the best use of the existing conducive learning environment to improve performance in examinations. Improved learning environment include new buildings to provide enough space for students, modern labs, and recruiting more skilled teachers.” According to Mr Ali Khamis Juma, Principal /Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Education and Training, in the Form IV exam held in November 2021, a total of 15,569 students from Zanzibar sat for the exam, of which 4,403 students passed, including 445 students (137 in Pemba) with first division. He went on to explain that a total of 3,683 students who sat for Form VI Examination held in May this year, a total of 3,644 students successfully passed the exam and qualified for higher learning within and outside the country. “Among the successful students, 693 students got Division I, of which 151 are here with you Mr President,” he said.