THE efforts by the Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA) in enhancing local participation in petroleum operations have been greatly welcome, with one of its stakeholders expressing appreciation. The Solutions Tag Consulting Company Limited presented a token to the PURA recently, in expressing its satisfaction for PURA for being a voracious advocate of local participation in petroleum operations in the country. Presenting the token at PURA Offices in Dar es Salaam, the Managing Director of the company, Mr Peter Kichogo, revealed that their decision to grant such a token was mainly driven by the unwavering effort put by PURA in ensuring that local content in petroleum upstream projects implemented in the country is enhanced. “We would like to sincerely express our earnest appreciation to PURA for having Tanzanians’ best interests at heart and for continuing to stand firm in enforcing local content requirements because by so doing PURA has created opportunities for Tanzanians to participate in petroleum operations in several ways”, said Mr Kichogo. Mr Kichogo further commented that had it not been for PURA interventions on local content, many local service providers would have probably been left behind and that most services required by oil companies engaged in petroleum exploration in the country would end up being imported. Upon receiving the token of appreciation on behalf of PURA, the Head of Local Content and Stakeholders Engagement, Mr Charles Nyangi, said the Authority is very humbled by the recognition and that the token means a lot to the authority. “No amount of words can fully describe how we feel at the moment about what you have presented to us. We have in the recent past received several accolades for our firm commitment to enforcing local content but none of those have touched us deep like yours. We thank you profoundly,” stated Mr Nyangi. PURA, established by Section 11 of the Petroleum Act, 2015, is responsible for, among other things, promoting the participation of local nationals in petroleum operations and ensuring local content legal requirements are being adhered to by companies involved in petroleum exploration and production in the country.