DTB Gymkhana and Aruti Aces have begun the T-20 Petrofuel Dar es Salaam Cricket Caravans Cup on high tune after stamping he victories in the fixtures staged in two venues early on Sunday. Gymkhana beat Jiuzhou Annadil Burhani in T-20 game at Annadil Burhan oval while Aruti Aces saw off Black & Decker Upanga at Dar Gymkhana ground in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. The victories have heightened the two teams in the standings. Gymkhana lead group  A while Aces command group B fixture. In the yesterday's encounter, Gymkhana punished Jiuzhou Annadil Burhani by 30 runs. Gymkhana command Group A with two points similarly to Annadil Burhani, but the former boasts superior net run rates. Gymkhana have a total of 1.5 net run rate while Annadil Burhani have a 0.31 net run rate. It was a tight encounter that began with Annadil Burhani winning a toss and elected to bowl. With the decision, Gymkhana had to bat first and registered 147 runs in 20 allocated overs which was too big for Annadil Burhani as they were all out after posting 117 runs. At the end of the encounter, Abdullah Jabiri of Gymkhana emerged the player of the match after hitting 47 runs from 41 balls. Other than Jabiri; Kartik Syal and Gurvinder Singh also steered Gymkhana to win. Syal lodged 35 runs from 28 balls, and Singh registered 32 runs from 15 balls. Despite losing the game, Annadil Burhani fielded players who had remarkable performance. Among their top players included Adnan Zariwala, Adnan Karimjee, Mustafa Lukmanji and Tambwe Rashidi. Zariwala scored 16 runs from 17 balls and claimed two wickets. Rashidi, on his side, grabbed three wickets. Karimjee ended his onslaught with 29 runs from 31 balls while  Lukmanji registered 22 runs from 26 runs. This is Jiuzhou Annadil Burhani's first defeat since the tournament began on Saturday. Annadil Burhani began by beating Horizon Teleports DCC by 41 runs at Annadil Burhan oval in their opener. They showed dominance in that encounter, as they destroyed Horizon Teleports DCC, who won the toss and elected to bowl. Annadil Burhani registered 132 runs in 15 of the 20-over showdown. Horizon Teleports DCC failed to beat the score after registering 91 runs all out. In the Group B encounter at Gymkhana grounds, Aruti Aces beat  Black & Decker Upanga by 12 runs. The results put Aces at the helm of the table after bagging two points with 0.6 net run rates. In second place are Black & Decker Upanga, without a point and -0.6 net run rates. Aces, who won the toss, opted to bat and registered 118 runs in 20 overs, a bar that the Upanga-based team failed to reach as they were all out when they posted 106. Salum Jumbe of Aces was named the MVP after hitting 29 runs from 21 balls.