SIMBA said Aishi Manula's high profile performance in both domestic and international assignments are the major reasons that made the club extend the contract of their first choice goalkeeper. According to the club's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally, Manula has inked a three-year contract and will serve the club until 2025. "We are thrilled to inform the Simba family that Manula is still our legal player until 2025 because he is among the continent’s best goalkeepers. "We are aware that it was not easy to keep him as he was being hunted by other clubs but in the end, he has chosen to continue offering his services at Simba and it could have been unfair to let go of a player of his caliber," he said. Further details on Manula deal as reported by Clecence Kunambi was confirmed by Manula’s agent, Jemedari Saidi who also o confirmed that his client has reached the agreement with Simba after a long discussion between the two parts to wave away interests from other two clubs; one from Tanzania and another from outside the country. He said the discussion involved some stiff discussion between the two parties until they had reached an agreement and he insisted that Manula will now remain at Msimbazi street for next three seasons. He said, without disclosing the amount that Simba put on the table for Manula that the package Simba offered to Manula, is superior to that offered by the two clubs that have been chasing him for a long time. “There were two interests from two clubs but couldn’t match with what Simba had offered my client after a long discussion and I can confirm that Manula will remain with Simba for next three seasons until 2024/25,”he said. Manula who joined Simba from Azam in 2016/17 season has spent six years with the Msimbazi Street Reds before his current contract renewal and steered the team to four consecutive league titles and four Azam Sports Confederation Cup thrones before losing them to their traditional rivals Young Africans who have won three major titles. He also led Simba to reach two quarterfinals of the Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup respectively. Manula is currently with national team squad drilling for Africa Nation Championship (CHAN) qualifying match against Somalia at Benjamin Mkapa stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The Msimbazi Street Reds have pitched a camp in Egypt where they are drilling ahead of the 2022/23 league season. Their new Head Coach Zoran Manojlovic has already been tasked to help them in winning back three domestic titles they lost last season as well as pushing them further into the semifinals of CAF CL. Both teams have since managed to seal encouraging deals in the unfolding transfer market hence who signed wisely will be seen on the pitch in front of thousands of fans who will storm the venue on the day.