HEALTH Minister Ms Ummy Mwalimu is expected to grace the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Mtwara Region, which aims to increase the awareness of the vaccine to fight against the pandemic. This was confirmed on Thursday by Mtwara Regional Commissioner, Brigadier General Marco Gaguti, who said the campaign is expected to be held tomorrow at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium, whereby about 20,000 people are expected to be vaccinated on the day. “As a region, we launched a vaccination exercise in August last year with the aim of vaccinating approximately 880,000 people, while until now, 265,000 people have received the vaccine, equivalent  to 33 per cent in the region,” he said. He called on residents of Mtwara and neighbouring regions including Lindi, Ruvuma and Coast to participate in the campaign as sustainable development of the country starts with good health. “This is also a part of government efforts by increasing coverage of Covid- 19 vaccination. The target is to vaccinate 70 per cent of the adult population by December this year. He added that preparation has been set up well at the event ground, including areas where citizens can get vaccination services. Brig Gen Gaguti said that it is important to vaccinate in order to protect the community from covid-19. Mtwara Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Hamad Nyimbea added that so far, the number of people vaccinated in the region since August last year is 260,000. Dr Nyimbea explained that the campaign will involve all councils and districts in the region starting tomorrow to 31th July this year, and is expected to vaccinate 48,000 citizens. He pointed out that the vaccine is important and people should come at large to be vaccinated, insisting that the vaccines are safe and effective. He said they do not receive any complaints on any side effects from vaccination. “Residents of Mtwara have had a good response about vaccination, and through this campaign, people will have the chance to get doses of the Johnson and Johnson (JJ) vaccine and for others who received jabs such as Sinopharm vaccine should complete their doses,” he said.