TANZANIA has been honoured to launch the African Super League in August 2022 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Patrice Motsepe revealed this over the weekend that the Confederation’s Executive Committee confirmed that the African Super League will kick off in August 2023, but will be officially launched in Tanzania in August 2022. The CAF’s official website revealed that the competition will breathe new life into the African club competition. The winners and participants of the inaugural African Super League will receive significant cash prizes and the proceeds from the tournament will include substantial solidarity payments to all 54 CAF Member Associations. During last year’s General Assembly in Egypt, the 54 member associations unanimously voted to go ahead with the competition and gave a mandate to the president and the Executive Committee to lead the implementation of the competition. Motsepe said: “The decision has now been taken to implement the CAF Super League. It will start in August 2023 and we will launch it during CAF’s 44th Ordinary Assembly in Tanzania on August 10th. We have been inundated with investors and sponsors, who are anxious to partner with us on the CAF Super League. It has huge potential to significantly uplift African football and to make it even more powerful.” Apart from the launching of the super league, several Tanzanian sports officials have been appointed to commission several matches. Among them the Tanzania Football Federation Executive Committee member Khalid Abdallah has been appointed by the CAF as the commissioner of the CHAN qualifier between Burundi and Djibouti that will be staged at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on July 24th this year. Also, four Tanzanian referees Elly Sasii, Mohamed Mkono, Soud Lila and Ramadhan Kayoko have been appointed by the CAF to officiate the CHAN qualifying match between Djibouti and Burundi at  Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam, on July 29th  this year. The CAF blessing for Tanzania to launch the Super League will be a start for Tanzania to see ways of implementing the Head of State plans to host AFCON in 2027. In achieving such a goal the government allocated 10bn/- to enable Tanzania meet the criteria for staging global and regional level competitions. The amount is solely for renovation of stadiums. During the tabling of the ministry for Culture, Arts  and Sports budget the docket minister Mohamed Mchengerwa said they are renovating seven stadiums; namely Jamhuri in Dodoma, Sheikh Amri Abeid in Arusha, Sokoine in Mbeya, CCM Kirumba in Mwanza, Mkwakwani in Tanga, Uhuru and Benjamin Mkapa arenas in Dar es Salaam. However, other renovation includes installing artificial grass and platforms in Kigoma, Rukwa, Mtwara, Iringa, Tabora and Shinyanga regions and that will come after consultation with the owners of the plots. Meanwhile, the FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, attended today’s CAF Executive Committee and Dr Motsepe thanked the FIFA President for his support of the establishment of the African Super League. “We will be engaging with stakeholders over the next few weeks to discuss the mechanics of the tournament and will release further details shortly. A significant amount of the money from the CAF Super League will be invested back into African football and part of the process involves giving $1 million every year to every one of CAF’s 54 Member Associations as a contribution to football and youth development. “We also want to look to increase the prize money for the men’s and women’s CAF Champions Leagues,” said Motsepe.