FORMER President Jakaya Kikwete has heaped praise on President Samia Suluhu for the Royal Tour Documentary, which is bringing revolution in the tourism sector. Speaking here on Friday evening, Dr Kikwete commended President Samia for her relentless efforts of promoting tourism amidst Covid-19 pandemic. The former Head of State expressed his displeasure on seeing some Tanzanians casting doubt on the feature film, which introduces the wealth of natural resources to the world. “The pandemic hit us so badly, bringing the sector to its knees, we should be thankful to her for coming up with such a bold move which seeks to revive the sector,” explained Dr Kikwete on the sidelines of the African Wildlife Fund’s (AWF) 60th anniversary and the premiering of Benjamin Mkapa Photography Awards Exhibition. The former President described the Royal Tour documentary as Samia’s brilliant idea of breathing a fresh lease of life on the 2 billion US dollars (about 5tri/-) industry, which continues to reel from the pandemic. Dr Kikwete rallied Tanzanians to support the president through such an initiative, saying it will reward the country’s tourism sector handsomely, in the near future. “We will reap a great deal of fortunes in the short and long term, she’s truly done a commendable job,” said the former president. Dr Kikwete further lambasted those who cast doubt on the feature-film, describing them as mean minds bent at describing Samia’s good work, through the documentary which showcases Tanzania’s beauty and diverse culture. In the same vein, Dr Kikwete paid glowing tribute to his predecessor Mkapa, describing him as a conservator to the core. According to the former president, during his tenure, the late Mkapa enacted laws and policies that were aimed at conserving the environment and protecting natural resources. “He always wanted to see Tanzanians reap benefits from natural resources, this is a noble cause that he never got tired of,” revealed Dr Kikwete. The retired president, who also served as Foreign Affairs Minister during Mkapa’s tenure, said the former President always ensured that human activities were regulated and controlled to ensure the sustainability of natural resources. “Whenever he got the opportunity to lecture at international platforms, Mr Mkapa always rooted for the protection of natural resources and he truly exhibited this through his writings and speeches,” he disclosed. For her part, the Mkapa’s widow, Mama Anna Mkapa expressed her gratitude to AWF’s gesture in honouring the former President. According to Mama Mkapa, the late leader treasured and valued conservation and protection of natural resources throughout his life. “Tonight’s event exemplifies the kind of legacy that my late husband left behind, he will probably be beaming a big smile wherever he is,” she said. At least 79 images representing 11 categories were put up for display at the city’s Cultural Heritage Centre. The Benjamin Mkapa African Wildlife Photography Awards are named after the late Mkapa, one of Africa’s most beloved leaders, who was the President of Tanzania from 1995 to 2005, as well as AWF’s longest-serving trustee. Having begun his career as a journalist, he was widely respected for his legacy of protecting Africa’s wild heritage and telling authentic stories from the continent. The awards were launched in 2021 to celebrate AWF’s 60th anniversary.