AFTER opening his goal scoring account for Simba, Ghanaian striker Augustine Okrah has envisioned a bright future assuring the club fans to expect more goals from him. He netted the only goal for the Msimbazi Street Reds after being held to a 1-1 draw versus Egypt's side Ismaily which was Simba's first pre-season match as they try to keep the squad in good shape before the start of next season "I would like to thank the coach for giving me the opportunity to play. I am very grateful to score my first goal for Simba... this is my first game. I think I need to improve more. "It was a good test for us to know our level of preparation and I am hoping to do more. I will try to give my best in each game. Of course, people should expect more goals from me," Okrah said smilingly. Simba continue to drill in Egypt ahead of the upcoming busy 2022/23 season of which they aim to achieve more after losing three major titles in the ended season. They have since injected new blood into the team plus signing Pablo Franco's successor (Zoran Manojlovic) all aimed at reshaping the squad and making it powerful enough to win back titles in the approaching term. However, the Msimbazi street giants confirmed that the Serbian coach has been given a one-year deal to parade at the club with an option to extend basing on the his performance. As such; his major test will be on August 13th this year when Simba face Young Africans in the Community Shield encounter to officially flag off the new season. According to Simba's Media and Communications Manager Ahmed Ally, winning the Community Shield silverware is among the tasks put forward for the new trainer to accomplish during his one year tenure at the club. Other assignments for the Serbian include helping the club to win the NBC Premier League title as well as Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) trophy which are currently held by Yanga. Also, Ally said Manojlovic has been tasked to push Simba all the way into the semifinals of CAF Champions League (CAF CL) next season a feat he said is the top priority for the club to achieve saying they are no longer interested to end their run in quarterfinals. Meanwhile, Simba have extended Mzamiru Yassin’s contract which will see him staying at the club up to 2024.