BUSINESS Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA) is committed to providing quality and swift online services to attract more businesses and investors into the country. This was stated by the Acting Director of Companies and Business Registration Department Mr Meinrand Rweyemamu when he met with 27 businessmen from India at the Indian High Commission over the weekend in Dar es Salaam. "The purpose of the BRELA is to provide short-term and efficient services that will enable the investors and traders to obtain a permit and start trading quickly and efficiently," said Mr Rweyemamu. He said BRELA was committed to providing online services because the world is currently in the fourth industrial revolution where competition is rampant and there is a need to attract foreign investors. He also said that BRELA is inviting more and more Indian investors to invest in Tanzania as currently the country through BRELA is committed to getting online services which save time in getting business or investment approval in the country. On his part, Acting Executive Director of Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), Mr John Mnali said the arrival of traders and investors from India is one of the government's efforts in bidding for investment and trade opportunities within and outside our country. Mr Mnali said that the launch of the Royal Tour documentary by President Samia Suluhu Hassan has assured investors and traders that Tanzania has many investment opportunities. Mr Mnali said they have been able to inform them about various attractions that the government is offering to investors who will need to invest in those attractions. India's High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Binaya Pradhan, said the forum was very important, especially for traders and investors from India as they would find the right way to go to doing business and investment without problems. He also thanked the government for extending cooperation with investors and traders from India gesture that is opening the doors to trade and investment between the two countries. He said they will continue to cooperate commercially and bring investors from India to come and invest in Tanzania as there are many companies from India who are ready to invest in extracting oil and in hospitals. "We have companies from India who need area for investment extracting oil, also in hospital," said Mr Binaya.