IT was on October 21, 2020 at around 12:30 pm when perusing our RVS Online TV staff WhatsApp group account, I confronted the director’s statement accompanied by a letter from the Zanzibar Broadcasting Commission (ZBC) that the TV has been banned for two months! The punishment, according to ZBC statement, was because of airing ‘unbalanced’ content. RVS Online TV was not given the right to reply, and the decision to ban was taken during general elections campaign, a journalist from the online TV narrates. Last year, a journalist with Mwananchi newspaper, was also harassed by security officers identified as from Zanzibar Special Department, accusing the journalist for taking pictures during an operation to remove street vendors from Darajani area. The camera was confiscated, but fortunately the minister responsible for special department intervened; the matter was resolved and the camera was returned to the journalist with apology to the press man. These are some of examples of a number of past challenges facing media development that has journalists and various stakeholders to call for the acceleration of Media Law reforms or have a new Media Law to safeguard journalists and promote freedom of expression. The Newspapers and Books Registration Act No. 5 of 1988 and the Zanzibar Broadcasting Commission Act No. 7 of 1997 (as amended in 2010) are particularly being challenged by journalists, media outlets and other stakeholders to contain clauses that deprive people and journalists the right to freedom of expression. Key stakeholders and media practitioners give views on the need for the new Media Law, after top leaders led by President Hussein Ali Mwinyi have nodded positively that ‘all laws including the media law which are outdated should be reformed or repealed. Ms Jamila Mahmoud, Director, Zanzibar Female Lawyers Association (ZAFELA) says that the current media laws are out-dated, because they lag behind the fast growing science and technology, including digitalization. “New media law is unavoidable now,” it is her view. She argues that some provisions in the ‘Newspapers and Book Agents Registration Act No. 5 of 1988’, which include registration, defamation and the public interest, deny the journalists the opportunity to freely collect and disseminate information. The Association of Non Governmental Organization Zanzibar (ANGOZA) Executive Director, Mr Hassan Khamis Juma says it is high time for Media Law reforms to replace the flawed provisions to fit the current era. He emphasizes on sharing of the proposed new Media Law and the intended reforms with stakeholders and journalists, so that enough views are collected to have better media laws that provide freedom of expression and media freedom in the East African region. Analysts and media consultants have identified some of limitations contained in the ‘Newspapers and Books Registration Act No. 5 of 1988’ as section 27(1) that empower police to seize newspapers and search any newspapers offices without permission. Other limitations identified in the Zanzibar Broadcasting Commission Act No. 7 of 1997 include section 5(c) which describes the functions of its board, including controlling and promoting code of conduct, ethics and powers to discipline journalists who violate ethics. “The Newspaper Act contains sections that are among the 40 repressive laws mentioned in researches,” he says, suggesting reforms in the media industry by having improved laws to allow media freedom and freedom of expression. Some Zanzibar journalists, including Zanzibar-today journalist, Ms Asya Hassan, says they face a range of challenges in their work, including difficulties to get reliable and accurate information due to some sources being afraid to provide information. “The proposed media law must protect the interest of journalists to ensure that we get timely information from sources with certainty because there are some sources that do not provide adequate cooperation,” she said. Ms Latifa Yussuf Khamis, a journalist from Zanzibar, advises the relevant authorities with the powers to reform laws to speed up the process of reforms to have a new Media Law prerequisite to development under digitalization. ZBC Executive Secretary, Mr Suleiman Abdullah Salim promises that his office will support changes as proposed by stakeholders in order to have a law that will go-well-with the growth of science and technology. “We have to make changes and improve our broadcasting laws, because many years have passed since the enactment of the current law and also there are ongoing changes driven by science and technology,” Mr Salim says. He notes that the budget for the reforms has been approved in the general national and ministerial budgets by the House of Representatives for 2022/2023. “We will engage with various media stakeholders to gather their views to have a friendly information laws,” he says. As regards to reforms of the ‘Newspaper Agency, Newspapers and Books No. 5 of 1988,’ he says that the process to review it has already started and has already been submitted to the House of Representatives committee leaders. The Law Reform Commission Secretary, Mr Mussa Kombo Bakari says that journalism profession remains important as other professions, so it should be guided by better and friendly legislation to accelerate development. “One of the areas that I personally support the proposed reforms is to have more relevant media laws like other professions,” he says, adding that in other professions such as engineering and law have been organized. He says that any engineer and lawyer who violate ethics, are disciplined by a disciplinary/ethics committee. “The media should also be well organized with better Media Law that allows freedom of expression and media freedom,” he says. Different leaders including Dr Mwinyi, the first Vice President of Zanzibar, Mr Othman Masoud Othman, and Second Vice President, Mr Hemed Suleiman Abdulla, have also, in several occasions, called on respective executives to review the laws. Ms Hawra Shamte a veteran journalist and media consultant has suggests looking at the better practices in different countries so that Zanzibar can copy the best from there so as to write the best Media Law in the region. She says that Kenya is one of the African countries that has successfully incorporated the requirements of the Convention on Human and Peoples’ Rights, an amendment to the 2010 law that was overseen by the Law Reform Commission, whereby the issue of freedom of expression and freedom of information has been given priority in Article 33, 34, and 35. Ms Shamte explains that Article 33(2) states that the government shall not control or interfere with any person who is involved in the broadcasting, delivery or distribution of all publications, this clause insists that there should be freedom of movement of electronic media, publication and all other forms of media, shall not punish any person for any comment or view or content of any advertising or publication and distribution. Article 33(3) the broadcasting of other electronic media has the freedom to be established based on licensing procedures which (a) are necessary to control air waves or sounds and other forms of signal transmission, (b) should not be regulated by the government, political interests or commercial interests. Article 33(4) all stateowned media shall be free to freely decide the editorial content of their broadcasts or other communications. “We have seen how much Kenya has granted freedom to the press, in May 2021 the UN human rights committee conducted the fourth review of the implementation of global rights and placed Kenya and Finland as one of the countries that best implements human rights issues,” she said. Another example is the Australian Law Reform Commission, which conducted an analysis of the word ‘incitement’ in its anti-verbal report No. 104 in July 2006, confirming that the word ‘sedition’ is not allowed at all in media laws and other laws because the word sedition not only impedes freedom of expression but also deprives the government of the right to express opinions from its citizens. Based on what has been said by the media stakeholders and the journalists, it is best that the government, based on the views of stakeholders, put in place a new law that will give freedom to the press and journalists, as well as freedom of expression, which will help the government get a wide range of feedback from its citizens in order to achieve the development goals.