STAGE is set for Tembo Nickel to step up its project after authorities in Ngara District; Kagera Region announced the moratorium, which marks the end of permanent developments on any land in the project area. Ngara District Executive Director (DED), Solomoni Kimilike, announced the moratorium on Tuesday, signaling that the project is on course. A moratorium is a temporary suspension of activity until future events warrant lifting of the suspension or related issues have been resolved. He said after the moratorium or cutoff date of July 18th2022, it means that those living in the project area will have to cease all permanent developments on the land. ActingDirector Josephat Sangatati, read the moratorium notice on behalf of the Ngara DED, stating that the notice affectedRwinyana,Bugarama, Nyabihanga, Mukubu and Muganza villages. “The Municipal Director has announced to the affected communities that their land will be revoked for the use of the Tembo Nickel project according to the Valuation and Valuer Registration Act of 2016 and its Regulations of 2018, which requires no developments to be carried out on land earmarked for project development,” he said. Kabanga Nickel is the largest development-ready nickel sulphide deposit in the world, unmatched in scale and grade, with at least 30 years life of mining and further exploration upside. On his part, NgaraDistrict Commissioner Colonel Mathias Kahabi, said the project has the eyes of the nation on it and pleaded for cooperation from all levels of leadership to ensure that the project is completed on time for nickel production to start. “This is a happy day and we are grateful because we have waited for a long time, it has been a long journey, but one full of hope.” “This project has attracted lot of people, including conmen, but we dealt with them, although some are still around and are moving close to the project area”. “Let us not be negative and discouraging, today is our day, we are on track and have a lot of specialists guiding the process, people with years of experience. Let us be cooperative and lets keep our eyes on the target and not be distracted by minor concerns,” said Colonel Kahabi. He reiterated that after the announcement of the moratorium, he was hopeful that there would be a lot of activity in the project area and those procedures must be followed. In another development, he said there were some bad elements in society who in cahoots with village leadership where conning the elderly. “I have been informed that there are people who approach the elderly and make them sign off their land under pressure. I will be heading straight to those identified areas to sort the matter,”he added. On the part of the relocation consultants RSK, the Project Lead, Basil Shio, said “The project will affect about 800 people of which, about 400 will have to be relocated. This is still an estimate and once we have done the survey then we will have the exact numbers”. The Acting Council Chairperson,Adronizi Burindoli, said “Many in the community have been hearing about the project since they were children and some were even born around the project inception, so it is great news that we have reached this stage now”. “I have been hearing about this project, it is a project that is going to bring great changes” he added.