THE completion of 42.4 kilometres of the East African Cooperation (EAC) Arusha bypass road brings a number of trade, business and investment opportunities for Tanzanians and others from the regional bloc. The project that was inaugurated on Friday by President Samia Suluhu Hassan and her Kenyan counterpart, who doubles as EAC Chairperson Uhuru Kenyatta, aims at opening the country by facilitating movement of goods, people and services to and from Kenya. Speaking  during the event, President Samia  said  the project  will  fuel economic activities, especially in the tourism sector for people in Arusha,  and others in the northern regions that are  being connected by the  just completed  42.4 km  road. “This road is going to open up economic opportunities, among others in the tourism sector, I urge people living near the project area to make better use of the opportunities coming across for the economic gains at individual, national and bloc levels,” she said. The launched project that was constructed at a cost of 197.4bn/- being a soft loan from African Development Bank (AfDB) is part of the multinational Arusha-Holili-Voi road which is a successor to the Arusha-Namanga-Athi River road that was completed in 2012. It forms part of the larger East African Road Network consisting of 15,000 kilometres of the international highways and part of the Trans African Highway (TAH) number 8 from Cape Town in South Africa to Cairo in Egypt via Gaborone in Botswana. President Samia also seized the occasion to assure Tanzanians and EAC leaders of the government's commitment to continue working on infrastructure projects for the sake of improving domestic and cross border business. She said, apart from road projects, the government is also working to improve marine and air transport as well as constructing Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) to link other countries in the bloc. “Plans are on card to construct the railway in the southern regions, a move that will link Tanzania and other counties in the southern part of Tanzania, in an effort to continue opening up the country and facilitate trade,” explained the head of state. For his part, President Kenyatta of Kenya said the project is a right platform for enhancing business   among citizens of the two countries, a move that will also stimulate the economies. “The importance of improving infrastructures cannot be underestimated, it is crucial that we continue putting in place proper roads and the needed facilitation for business and economic wellbeing of the people,” he said. He was of a view that the just launched road will facilitate transportation of Tanzania tomatoes, vegetables from Arusha to Mombasa in Kenya through Holili and Taveta. Also a number of goods and products will now be transported easily,” he added, commending development partners such as African Development Bank (AfDB) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for supporting implementation of the project. Attending the event, the AfDB Director General for East Africa Nnenna Lily Nwabufo said the project is fully aligned with the bank’s five priorities in particular, integrating Africa and improving the standard of Africans. “The construction was done at the cost of 217 million US dollars using the AfDB’s African Development Fund, for which 112 million US dollars was for Tanzania and the remaining 105 million US dollars was for Kenya,” she said. According to her, the AfDB also mobilized 700,000 for East African Community Secretariat to implement cross border activities at the Namanga border under the project. “The project also facilitates trade and cross border movement between Tanzania and Kenya, as well as simplifying trade with other countries including Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),” she added. She assured that the AFDB remains committed to working closer with EAC member countries to improve trade and environment and well being of the citizens. For his part, the EAC Secretary General Dr Peter Mathuki said the bloc is also coordinating the construction of four other international roads between Tanzania, Kenya, Burundi and Rwanda. A list of the projects that are now at different stages of implementation includes the 400 kilometres from Malindi- Mombasa- Tanga to Bagamoyo, 305km road project from Nyakanazi, Kasulu in Tanzania to Limonge-Bujumbura in Burundi. Others include the 166 kilometres from Rusumo in Kagera region to Kigali in Rwanda as well as the 302kms linking Uganda and Tanzania in the North western part. Explaining further, he said the continued improvement in infrastructure in EAC has significantly reduced   transit time from Mombasa port in Kenya to Kigali Rwanda via Uganda to five days from the previous 18 days. “Also the transit to Bujumbura in Burundi and Kigali Rwanda from Port of Dar es Salaam has been cut to an average four days from the former 22 days. This has also reduced the cost of transportation,” he said.