ACCLAVIA Insurance Brokers and Tanzania Fisheries Trust Fund (TFTF) have signed a health and life insurance agreement, aimed at providing insurance services to fishermen in the country. Acclavia Insurance Brokers Director General, Ms Nindiu Mpangile said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the initiative will support the government's efforts in promoting the Blue Economy. “With this insurance cover, fishermen will be able to access health services in 370 hospitals across the country and in the Islands,” she said. Ms Mpangile said Acclavia will continue to provide insurance education to reach other more Tanzanians so that they get the important cover. "Yes, we have started, I know we cannot reach all of them at the same time, but those who are going to start with will benefit by paying 250,000/- per year and they will go to get treatment for four family members in each household. Also, with the same amount, members will be served in the event of the loss of a family member lm/- up to 4m/-," she said. On his part, the TFTF Chairperson, Mr Alphonce Mkama said more than 4.6 million fishermen of Tanzania Mainland will benefit from the agreement, which will be renewable. "Fishermen have been crying for a long time and it is a very important sector, although we are not appreciated in terms of health; that is why we have decided to unite so that we can get relief from treatment," said Mr Mkama. He urged insurance companies to spread their services to the villages where most of the citizens do not have insurance awareness. In addition, he asked other companies to see how to insure their equipment, especially fishing nets, so that if they get damaged or sink, they can get compensation. "The fishing net is sold up to 8m per one and if it breaks or sinks, the harvester suffers a loss and it costs him money and time to buy another one, but if he has insured it, it will take him at least two days or a week to complete it," said Mkama. On his part, Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) Eastern Zone Manager, Mr Frank Fred said the authority will continue to provide guidelines that will be accessible to all Tanzanians and reach a goal of 50 per cent by 2030. He advised insurance companies to be creative to get many Tanzanians to enter the insurance sector which will help stakeholders and their assets. “We have the opportunity to see our assets protected and to protect the economy of each individual so our colleagues TFTF should increase efforts and be a catalyst for others,” said Fred.