THE ruling CCM party has categorically stated that while it accepts rewriting of the country's constitution, the process should be citizens-centred and unrushed. “We support constitutional changes or writing a new constitution but there has to be enough time because there is no urgency,” CCM’s Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Shaka Hamdu Shaka, stated on Monday in an interview with the ‘Daily News’. He made the party's stance clear, arguing the issue of rewriting the constitution was not a new concept to the CCM, saying the country has in the past made several changes to the document. “What we insist on is that we have no objection to the new constitution or constitutional changes, but what we stand for is that the matter should not be considered urgent. Citizens, who are the main stakeholders must be fully involved, educated and understand what type of constitution they want,” he elaborated. Shaka issued the remarks during his visit to the Headquarters of the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), the state-owned print media, which publishes Daily News, Sunday News, HabariLeo, HabariLeo Jumapili and Spotileo as well as online platforms - Daily News Digital. “The needed constitution is not for politicians, who have carried their own agenda but it is for citizens,” Mr Shaka emphasised, adding that the issue of rewriting the constitution was not a new phenomenon for CCM; recalling that it started way back during the post-independence era in the 1960’s. Zanzibar and Union governments had different constitutions, but the party made efforts to craft a single constitution for the party and later for both sides of the Union. Since then, the party has been supporting changes and amendments in the constitution, whereby the supreme law has gone through 14 changes, so far. “This is the ruling party which should have big ears to listen to the public's concerns and protect national interests,” he said. Shaka noted further that ten years ago, the CCM-led government formed a commission under retired Judge Joseph Warioba to oversee rewriting of the new constitution. The commission collected views and the country convened Constituent Assembly (CA), which involved citizens’ representatives, with the Assembly coming up with a proposed constitution. “So, from there how do we go, it needs thinking and discussion. People should sit down and think, we should not rush. There is no urgency in writing a new constitution, we need enough time to write it. People have to be engaged and educated. The proposed constitution is there so it depends on how we want to go about it,” he added. He stressed that a new constitution is obtained according to each particular nation’s history. “The history of our nation is the one which would get us the new constitution, while putting ahead national interests,” he added. On the other hand, he briefed about the on-going intra-party election at grassroots, saying the exercise was going on well and it has reached 95 per cent. He said CCM members at the grassroots have turned out in a big number to contest for different leadership posts. Mr Shaka commented that the country’s political situation is very good because of President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s strong intent to bring Tanzanians together. “Today, we are speaking about political reconciliation. This is not a simple thing, it needs bravery and political will. Politics should be used as a catalyst to bring people together, this is the stance by our president,” he added. Speaking about the National Population and Housing Census to be conducted on August 23, 2022, Mr Shaka said in order to properly implement the party’s election manifesto, the CCM-led government needed the right statistics on population. He pointed out that statistics are crucial for making development plans, noting that the party has issued directives to its leaders countrywide to motivate people to participate fully in the exercise.