THE government has put the strategy in place to ensure the state owned enterprises increase efficiency and contribute to national development. The Treasury Registrar, Mr Mgonya Benedicto, said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that the initiatives bore fruits as non-tax collection rose by 109.5 per cent to 852.98bn/- for just ended 2021/22 financial year. "The strategy has been beneficial to the government because we managed to increase collection of non-tax income after collecting 109.50 per cent, which is above the target," Mr Benedicto told participants of one day seminar organised by CRDB Bank for heads of government institutions, organisations, departments and agencies. Thus, the Treasury Registrar challenged the heads of government institutions to take seize the opportunities offered by CRDB to raise their bar of efficiency and productivity. "CRDB has shown us its willingness to cooperate with our institutions, organizations and agencies in improving efficiency through services and innovative products. "Let's make good use of the lender's opportunity because it has financial muscles and innovative products to boost our efficiency--as we have been witnessing in [government] strategic projects," Mr Benedicto, an economist said. The Treasury Registrar said the government has investments in 297 state enterprises with assets valued at 67tri/-, including CRDB, which fortnight ago issued a dividend 36.1bn/- to the government. The CRDB CEO and Managing Director, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela, assured the Treasury Registrar that they are ready to work closely with government to assist increase efficiency and productivity for the wellbeing of the nation. "This seminar is a result of the government initiatives calling public sector to collaborate with private sector to improve performance," Mr Nsekela said. Mr Nsekela named some of the areas of cooperation as to facilitate projects and development programmes implemented by those institutions and robust systems to support revenue collection and payments and various type loans from corporate to workers.  Speaking on behalf of the institutions, the Executive Director of the Higher Education Loans Board (HESLB), Mr Abdulrazak Badru, thanked the CRDB for organising the seminar which provided an opportunity to discuss the challenges faced by public institutions and opened their eyes on various opportunities offered by CRDB. "We are one of the close partners of CRDB through the registration and lending system for higher education students which has helped us to increase the efficiency in lending," Mr said.