THE Mabwepande compost plant that uses organic waste produced in households and market places has been officially launched for operations. The plant was launched on Thursday in Kinondoni Municipality, Dar es Salaam region during the climax of the 12th anniversary of friendship between Dar es Salaam City and Hamburg City of Germany. Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Amos Makala, who graced the event, said that the project is a result of diplomatic relations between Germany and Tanzania. “This compost plant is the result of good cooperation between Tanzania and Germany, as the two countries have worked hand in hand by sharing moral and material support that facilitated the completion of the project” said RC Makala. The project costs 6bn/-, the sum that has been contributed by the two nations. The plant is expected to produce not less than 50 direct employments and other opportunities to farmers and residents of Mabwepande. He added that the project has come at the right time as the world faces shortage of fertilizers which has been worsened by an ongoing war in Ukraine. The plant has the capacity of receiving 50 tonnes of waste per day although the desired capacity is 150 tonnes which is the future goal of the municipality to ensure constant supply of fertilizer in relation to waste management. The current average capacity of daily waste collected in Dar es Salaam is 4,000 tonnes which is more than what the plant can process per day, hence ensuring surplus supply of raw materials to the project but yet posing serious threat to the environment if not managed properly. On his part, Germany Ambassador to Tanzania, Regine Hess thanked the two governments and urged citizens to help feed the compost plant that will boost fertiliser production in the country. Farmers will get relief from the increasing fertilizer prices as the domestic production will facilitate constant supply of the commodity and revamp the progress that the government is making in managing waste in the city areas. Mabwepande compost plant will help the government to boost the agriculture sector.