African Development Bank (AfDB) and the African Guarantee Fund (AGF) on Wednesday signed a 110 million US dollars bouquet of financing facilities with CRDB Bank to boost access to finance for women SMEs. The AfDB a 60 million US dollars financial package comprising 50 million US dollars subordinated debt to support CRDB’s regional expansion efforts and a senior loan of 10 million US dollars to support its efforts in accelerating access to finance for women SMEs in the country. The facility is also coupled with 175,000 US dollars technical assistance grant through AfDB’s AFAWA Initiative supported by the Women Entrepreneurship Initiative (WeFI) to strengthen CRDB’s capacity to support women entrepreneurs in Tanzania to become more bankable. CRDB Group CEO and Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said the bouquet of financing will enable them to significantly impact the socio-economic growth of the region by empowering SMEs, especially women, and unleashing their full potential. "We are very excited to have closed this agreement. The subordinated loan facility will improve the bank's overall capitalisation and support future growth and regional expansion without jeopardizing capital ratios," Mr Nsekela said. Similarly, the African Guarantee Fund (AGF) has renewed its guarantee line to CRDB with 50 million US dollars. The line includes the AFAWA Guarantee for Growth component to de-risk the women’s market and further support the growth of women SMEs. Mr Nsekela also stated that the agreement with AfDB and AGF will support CRDB's commitment to assisting SMEs in building resilience and closing the working capital gap. AGF Group CEO Mr Jules Ngankam acknowledged the longstanding relationship between AGF and CRDB that has supported SMEs across various sectors. “This tripartite partnership is a game changer particularly to bridge the financing gap for women entrepreneurs,” Ngankam said. AfDB's Ms Nnenna Nwabufo stated that the partnership would, as CRDB expands, enable SMEs to access finance in the region. More importantly, it adds to Tanzania’s efforts to close the access to finance gap for women entrepreneurs, which is estimated at 1.6 billion US dollars The bank is currently finalizing its move to the DRC while also considering expanding into other East and Central African countries.