PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan, who is also National Chairperson of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi, has sent condolences to the Chairperson of South Africa’s African National Congress (ANC), Mr Gwede Mantashe, following the death of party’s Deputy Secretary, Ms Yasmin Jessie Duarte. The ANC leader passed away last Sunday. The Tanzanian leader also conveyed the condolence message to the President of South Africa, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa. According to the statement issued by CCM's Ideology and Publicity Secretary, Mr Shaka Hamdu Shaka, President Samia described the late Yasmin as one of the strong leaders of ANC with unwavering stand since the anti-apartheid era. “She will be remembered as a leader who stood for an equal society regardless of gender or race. I have received news of her passing with deep sadness. “In this difficult time let me convey my condolences to her family, relatives and friends for the loss of their loved one,” President Samia said in the message. Ms Samia assured members of ANC and South Africans in general that the people of Tanzania stand with them in mourning the death of Ms Yasmin. “We also join all people in Africa and elsewhere in the world who, apart from being touched by Comrade Yasmin’s professional life, also collaborated with her in one way or another in the patriotic duty of fighting and protecting the freedom of Africans and African countries in various fields," she said. President Samia pointed to the fact that appointment of Ms Yasmin as special assistant to the then President of South Africa, the late  Nelson Mandela, and then member of ANC’s Central Committee since the year 2002, demonstrated her leadership ability, strength and importance to the ANC. Ms Yasmin served Deputy Secretary General of ANC since 2012 until her death last Sunday. Ms Samia said the late Yasmin was part of ANC's achievements since the days of the liberation struggle against apartheid rule in South Africa which has culminated in a just and equal society focused on development of people of South Africa and African continent as a whole. Ms Yasmin Jessie Duarte, who was born on September 19, 1953 in Johannesburg, was a South African politician and Deputy Secretary General of ANC. A longtime anti-apartheid activist, she served in various positions including a special assistant to Nelson Mandela and a member of the provincial cabinet (MEC) for Gauteng Province. She also served as South Africa’s Ambassador to Mozambique, spokesperson of the ANC, before assuming her post as Deputy Secretary-General of the ANC in 2012, until her death on 17 July 2022.