A NEW study on reducing road related deaths and injuries have advised on measures to be taken to rescue lives, mostly of youths in Tanzania and other parts of the world. Road accidents have remained a hard nut to crack as recently, a bus travelling from Kahama to Shinyanga towns plunged by the bridge, killing five people and injuring 26 others. Also at the beginning of the month of June, an accident involving three vehicles killed 20 people, injuring others in Iringa after the minibus crashed into a truck which had already overturned. “In Tanzania, the impact was particularly compelling: implementing the full set of recommended interventions would reduce youth deaths by 58 per cent and serious injuries 59 per cent by 2030 with a combined benefit‐cost ratio (BCR) of 38.3,” read part of the study survey report released recently. The study titled ‘Development of the Investment Case to Reduce Road Traffic Injuries among Adolescents’ was conducted by Victoria University Melbourne’s Murdoch Children’s Research Institute, and commissioned by the FIA Foundation. It examines how proven road safety interventions introduced at scale in the 77 countries, Tanzania Included, could prevent death and serious injury to youths aged 10 to 24 between now and 2050. Road traffic injury is the leading global cause of death for young people aged 5-29. These injuries can be life-changing and life-long for victims and their families. The research model looked at how proven interventions including traffic speed reductions, safe road infrastructure design, motorcycle helmets, drink driving enforcement and vehicle safety measures would save lives and deliver economic returns on investment. FIA Foundation Chairperson Mr Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, commented: “This report shows the huge potential for road safety investment to prevent road crashes wrecking young lives. “A thousand young people in this age group are dying on the world’s roads every day, a conflict-scale carnage, and thousands more are injured. We know how to prevent this, we have the tools, we have a UN development target which every country has endorsed, and we have a UN Road Safety Fund poised to act. Donors, national governments and city authorities must now provide the funds and the political commitment to save young lives.” Zoleka Mandela, Global Ambassador for the Child Health Initiative, whose daughter Zenani was killed in a road crash just after her 13th birthday, said: “We know exactly how to prevent road traffic injury. As this report shows, we can save lives and the measures we have available are incredibly effective. Leaders everywhere should not just take note, but must take action. “Investing in road safety for our young people should be essential, a top policy priority. The loss of young lives on our roads is a continued insult to the millions of families like mine who have suffered. Road traffic injury is economically senseless, morally unconscionable,” she says. Dr John Symons, Victoria University Research Fellow and lead author advises that Tanzania and other Low and Middle-Income Countries should adopt policies and interventions which have proven to reduce road traffic injury. Dr Symons recommends that it would be possible to achieve enormous reductions in fatalities and serious injuries for adolescents and youths, and generate very large returns on investment. The lead researcher reveals that fatal accidents in Tanzania occur more in rural areas than urban ones and this is attributed to drivers considering rural roads to be free for them to speed as they wish. He attributes accidents to be fuelled by factors like speeding, poor infrastructure, drivers’ behaviour, driving while drunk among others. On the other hand, overheads of attending Road Traffic Accidents (RTA) casualties may paralyse referral health services in Tanzania if initiatives are not taken to decimate road mayhem on roads, a survey from emergency department of Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) has revealed. The devilment of road accident calamities is also said to be destroying the national economy through eroding man power who dies on the road and those who get permanent disability to remaining dependents. “RTA victims composed of about 50 per cent of physical injury patients admitted in the year 2021, most of whom have no health insurance, no clear means of meeting medical expenses,” Says Dr Biita Muhanuzi from emergence department at MNH. “Deaths cases emanating from RTA are higher than those from other cases, higher than deaths caused by killer diseases like Malaria, HIV and Tuberculosis,” the medic told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam recently. Dr Muhanuzi revealed that over 60 per cent of admitted RTA casualties last year were as a result of motorcycle accidents, against 23 per cent caused by car and others caused by tricycles and bicycles. While men accounted for 75 per cent of total victims, women were 24 per cent, most treatment burden fell in the hospital’s docket as only 14 per cent had insurance coverage, said Dr Muhanuzi and added that this was not healthy for the Public national referral hospital as the growing RTA related expenses may paralyze its operations if accidents are not minimized. “To aggravate financial crisis, 14 per cent of the victims attended last year sold their household items to meet treatment expenses, while 20 percent took loans from their relative on the same endeavours,” Dr Muhanuzi said. Apart from showing that motorcyclists were on the top of the causes of fatality and patients, Dr Muhanuzi revealed that most of them were children and youths with the age of as low as five years old to about 30. He highlighted that pedestrians were also part of main prey, causatives of injuries in RTA were recklessness like excessive speeding, not wearing helmets and not fastening seat belts for the side of motorists and passengers. Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) is advocating road safety, according to Ms Isabella Nchimbi who is a legal officer. It aims at engaging various actors including executive officers and chairpersons of local government authorities and Police Force with the aim of building their capacity on how best to participate in reducing injuries and deaths from road accidents to have safer localities.