THE Rift Valley Mining Association in collaboration with investors from South Africa and England are set to use Mtwara Port to export some 110,000 tonnes of coal per month to Asia and around the world. Director of the Association Fahad Mkaandamu made the revelation here recently, saying the association was in the final discussion with Mtwara Port management towards utilising the deepest water port to transport their products abroad. “We highly thank the management of the Mtwara Port for all the support they have accorded us. We are in the final discussion with the management to ensure we export our coal products through Mtwara Port,” he said. He said Mtwara Port is well set to handle their coal shipments as it has improved infrastructure and other equipment to ensure efficient shipment of their products. Mr Mkaandamu was speaking shortly after having discussions with Mtwara Port management. Mr Mkaandamu, who was accompanied by mining investors from South Africa and England, also toured the port to see the development progress conducted by the government. On the other hand, Selim Kaymak, an investor from South Africa and the Director of Alpha Resources Mining Company said Mtwara Port is strictly important for any kind of mining investment following massive expansion work the port has undergone. “Because of these reasons (large development) Mtwara Port is strictly important for any kind of mining investment even in other regions and areas... we highly appreciate your welcoming and support based on the discussions that we have had,” he said. Commenting on the shipment process, Director of ImpoExpo Logistics (Tanzania’s top transport and Logistics Company), Eurutunu Malamia, said Rift Valley Association with the investors have planned to export 55,000 to 110, 000 per and 1.2 million tonnes per year to Asia and other areas in the globe. “ImpoExpo Logistics are here in Mtwara to transport coal for our customer Rift Valley Association and their collaborators from South Africa and England,” he said, noting that ImpoExpo has already finalised some procedures towards shipping coal by Rift Valley Association. He said ImpoExpo have done enough study basing on the shipment process in the port and they are satisfied with infrastructures towards handling shipment activities, Mr Malamia thanked the government for the huge investment in the port of Mtwara. He said that the ImpoExpo Logistics Company has also met with Mtwara Regional leaders towards ensuring smooth shipment activities in the region. Acting Port Manager Abdilla Urio expressed happiness over the plans by Rift Valley Association and investors to use Mtwara Port, saying the plans will improve business activities at the port. He however directed the investors to ensure enough preparations, abiding by all the procedures required in transporting the coal through the port. Boasting its pride of being a natural harbor, Mtwara Port is the country’s strategic terminal that plays a significant role in facilitating cargo transport for the southern regions of Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma. Due to its strategic location, the port also serves as an ideal gateway to the outside world for commodity exports and imports for some parts of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states such as Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia. Cognisant of the port’s huge potential, the government through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), executed an expansion project of the terminal at the cost of 137bn/-. The expansion included the construction of a new berth, measuring 300metres in length and 13.5 metres in depth, enabling the port to accommodate mega ships weighing 65,000 tonnes. Expansion of the port’s cargo storage yard measuring 79,000 -square metre has also massively improved the services. Originally the port had a storage yard measuring 40,000 square metres only. Mtwara port has also increased its cargo handling capacity from 400,000 tonnes per annum to 1,000,000 tonnes as all the necessary state -of -the art cargo handling equipment, including modern mobile cranes and other heavy lifting machines have been availed.