VERNAL pools are empty and dry most of the year, but when the heavy rains come, dips and small sinks in the land fill up for several weeks or months. Because they are dry most of the time, they are free from fish. Amphibians do not want to lay eggs in water which holds fish, because the fish will eat the eggs and larvae (called tadpoles, viluilui). Therefore, during the few months of heavy rains when vernal pools are full of water, they are a haven for frogs (vyura) and tadpoles. In my garden, during the rainy season, the water table is very close to the surface. So, I dug a couple of meters into the sand. During the rainy season this fills with clean water as the water table rises, and forms a temporary pool. Frogs and tadpoles quickly emerge from underground from where they have been resting during the dry season, and the males start to call to the females. Many people complain that these loud powerful noises, these love songs, disturb their sleep. But the amphibians spend most of the year underground. When they emerge in the rain; the males call urgently to the females, loudly as possibly, “I’m here, now’s our chance for immortality.” They mate, the females lay eggs in the vernal pools, which quickly hatch into tadpoles, which quickly mature so they can hop out onto dry land as little frogs and toads before the pool dries up. This year there was no vernal pool. The amphibians which depend on it, did not have a chance. We rarely heard them, meaning they are still hiding underground. There could one or two reasons why the vernal pool did not fill with water: 1) there was less than the usual amount rain, and/or 2) the aquifer is depleted. An aquifer is a bit like an underground lake. It is hard to know the size of an aquifer because it is underground. An aquifer usually holds clean water, because the rainwater that fills it, has been cleansed while passing down through sand and earth. The aquifer is depleted by people who have wells and remove the water. This is okay, if the aquifer is able to re-fill during the rainy season.  These days, however, in Mikocheni there is an emphasis on rushing the rainwater quickly in drainage ditches to the sea.  There is no time for the rain water to sink into the soil, down into the aquifer. The few rains we had were not enough to fill the aquifer; the water table did not rise enough to fill the space to form a vernal pool, and the amphibians did not have a chance to emerge, mate, or successfully procreate. Meanwhile we must acknowledge this sign, that we may be wasting a massive natural resource; fresh water aquifers are one of God’s gifts hidden underground.  It is especially easy to permanently damage this gift since the garden is close to the sea; if the fresh water is pulled out and not allowed to replenish, salt water will seep in, and replace the fresh water.  People in Dar es Salaam and Bagamoyo have already felt this when their wells turned brack-ish. It’s a huge waste. We need to allow the water to sit on the ground for a day or two until it sinks into the aquifer.  Is there room in your compound, your garden, your school, church or mosque yard, to have a vernal pool, or even just some dips in the lawn to hold the water?  so it doesn’t rush away, to give it a chance to fill the aquifer.  