OCCUPATIONAL Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) has reiterated its commitment to improe investment and business environment through strengthening systems for safety and health at workplaces to lure investors. OSHA Chief Executive Officer, Ms Khadija Mwenda made the statement in Dodoma when opening a strategic meeting of authority’s health inspectors from different parts of the country. “We all see direction of the Sixth Phase Government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan, which emphasizes on putting in place friendly environment for investment and doing business in the country. Therefore, through this meeting we (OSHA) should look at means of making investment climate friendly to make investors and businesspeople feel proud investing in the country,” Ms Mwenda told the participants. “We have sat with about 100 medical staff of OSHA with the aim of ensuring that we offer better services timely and look at how we can facilitate workplaces in the country so that they effectively observe 2003 Act on safety and health at workplace,” she said. According to Ms Mwenda, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in recent days passed a resolution that requires each member state to ensure it effectively supervises issues of safety and health at workplaces. She noted that the authority has organised itself well for to implementation of the ILO’s resolution. Some of participating health inspectors admitted that after the strategic meeting they would have common vision for improving workplace environment in the country. They called upon employers to properly supervise the law on safety and health at workplaces in order to bring efficiency in production. “From this strategic meeting we will come out with joint resolutions that will lead us in improving workplaces. The resolutions will, among other things, focus on targets for the 2022/23 financial year,” stated Dr Denis Gabriel, OSHA’s Health Inspector. Ms Blandina Reuben, another health inspector, urged employers to effectively supervise implementation of the law and various guidelines on safety and health at workplaces for bringing economic benefits in the country. “Let me call upon all employers at various workplaces to adhere to the law since doing so would help them reduce costs on losses caused by accidents at workplaces,” she urged. The strategic meeting was held to evaluate performance of the authority during the 2021/22 fiscal year and going through guidelines and various regulations for safety and health at workplace.