Booming coal exports from southern Tanzania has given the port of Mtwara a new lease of life, as exporters are increasingly utilizing the country’s third-largest seaport to ship the commodity to various destinations abroad. Deliberate measures to expand and modernize the deep-water port of Mtwara in the southern part of the country have massively increased its capacity and cargo handling efficiency. The government’s strategic investment in the improvement of Mtwara Port has turned this seaport into a reliable terminal for cargo shipment to and from the southern regions of Tanzania and neighbouring nations. The investment is worth it as vindicated by booming cargo volume and income generation as figures from the previous financial year suggest. Over the past few months, cargo shipment through Mtwara Port, particularly coal, has soared tremendously, with revenue collections going up as well. According to statistics issued recently by Mtwara Port's Accountant Teddy Kalolon revenue collection increased from 14bn/- in the 2020/21 financial year to 23bn/- in the 2021/22 fiscal year, which is equivalent to 64.2 per cent rise. Coal exports through the port of Mtwara surged to a record high in June, this year, as 59,960 tonnes of Tanzanian coal extracted in Ruvuma Region was shipped direct to Amsterdam, in the Netherlands through a bulk carrier, MV ETG Southern Cross. It was a slight rise from the previous coal export volume record of 59,815 tonnes shipped to Egypt on March 4th, this year. According to Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) cargo handling statistics for Mtwara Port, between October last year and April this year, the port handled 245,732.30 tonnes of coal exported to various destinations; India (145,917.3 tonnes), Egypt (59,815tonnes) and Senegal (40,000 tonnes). And a new cargo handling milestone is beckoning for the port, which is steadily realising its potential as a strategic port for the country, connecting the southern part of Tanzania and a number of Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries to the rest of the world. This comes after Rift Valley Mining Association in collaboration with investors from South Africa and England recently expressed their intention to export some 110,000 tonnes of coal per month from Tanzania to Asia and across the world through the port of Mtwara. According to the Director of Rift Valley Mining Association, Fahad Mkaandamu, the association was involved in talks with the management of Mtwara Port on the planned transportation of coal to the foreign markets. “We are in the final discussion with the management to ensure we export our coal products through Mtwara Port,” said Mr Mkaandamu, who was grateful to the port’s management for the great support accorded to his firm. Mkaandamu believes that the Mtwara Port is well equipped to handle their coal shipments as it has improved infrastructure and boasts modern equipment to ensure efficient and timely shipment of their coal cargoes. Mr Mkaandamu, accompanied by mining investors from South Africa and England, toured the Mtwara port recently, and commended the government for the massive investment in the improvement of the port’s infrastructure and modern equipment. Selim Kaymak, an investor from South Africa and the Director of Alpha Resources Mining Company described the Mtwara Port as ideal for any kind of mining investment after undergoing huge expansion. "Mtwara Port is strictly important for any kind of mining investment even in other regions and areas...we highly appreciate your welcoming and support based on the discussions that we have had," he said. According to the Director of ImpoExpo Logistics, Eurutunu Malamia, Rift Valley Association with the investors are planning to export 1.2 million tonnes of coal from Tanzania to Asia and other areas in the globe annually. Malamia added further that ImpoExpo was satisfied with Mtwara port’s capacity and efficiency, thanking the government for committing huge resources toward the improvement of the strategic port, which is described as a natural harbour. Acting Mtwara Port Manager Abdilla Urio expressed happiness over the plans by Rift Valley Association and investors to use Mtwara Port, saying the plans will improve business operations at the port. He, however, directed the investors to ensure enough preparations, abiding by all the procedures required in transporting the coal through the port. For his side, TPA’s Acting Marketing and Public Relations Director, Nicodemus Mushi thanked the sixth phase government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan for continuously supporting the Authority towards achieving its objectives. Mr Mushi reiterated the Authority’s commitment to improve infrastructure, services and efficiency at the country’s sea and inland ports in line with its mission to make Tanzania a preferred water transport hub in the East African region. While excited with the increasing cargo volumes and impressive revenue generation at Mtwara port, Mushi said the terminal plays a crucial role in transforming the economy of the southern regions of Tanzania and its presence boosts job creation. Mtwara port, which was built between 1948 and 1954, is one of the three major seaports managed by the Tanzania Ports Authority. Others are Dar es Salaam and Tanga. Due to its strategic location, the port also serves as an ideal gateway to the outside world for commodity exports and imports for some parts of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states such as Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia. Cognisant of the port’s huge potential, the government through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), executed an expansion project of the terminal at the cost of 157.8bn/-. The expansion included the construction of a new berth, measuring 300metres in length and 13.5 metres in depth, enabling the port to accommodate mega ships weighing 65,000 tonnes. Expansion of the port’s cargo storage yard measuring 79,000 -square metre has also massively improved the services. Originally the port had a storage yard measuring 40,000 square metres only. Mtwara port has also increased its cargo handling capacity from 400,000 tonnes per annum to 1,000,000 tonnes with the government also giving the TPA the war chest to procure state-of-the-art cargo handling equipment.