GLOBAL Education Link (GEL) has urged Tanzanians who wish to study in UK to apply for Commonwealth Scholarships which are expected to be open from next week. Each year, UK avails 35 commonwealth scholarship posts for Tanzanians to study in UK but only 10 to 15 applicants succeed and others fail due to inappropriate applications. The opportunity was revealed by GEL Directors Abdulmalik Mollel at the ongoing universities exhibitions at Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam. Apart from local universities, the six days exhibitions is attended by  ten overseas  universities from Iran, India, Georgia, Cyprus, Turkey, United States of America, United Kingdom, Mauritius, Dubai, Poland, Australia, Canada and Malaysia under the umbrella of GEL. Mollel said GEL invited universities  which offer  courses  with demand in the market like health and paramedical sciences  to enable Tanzanian youth who wish to study abroad to make right decision. He said the universities provide courses such as pharmacy, medical laboratory technology, operation theatre technology, anesthesia, radiology and imaging technology, physiotherapy, Optom, hospital administration and public health. Commenting on scholarship, Mollel said many Tanzanians would wish to win that scholarship but most of them fails since they lack the skills to fill properly their application form so he urged people to attend the exhibitions to get the knowledge on how to fill their application appropriately. Mollel said any Tanzanians who wish to study in UK must undergo International English Language Testing System (IELTS), which measure the competence of English language but most fail the exams. "It is unfortunate that many Tanzanians submit their application to study in UK for different levels of education but they fail,British Council is taking in the ongoing university exhibitions at the Global Education Link pavilion prospective students can visit the booth to learn more on how they can make proper application  of scholarships," said Mollel Speaking at the exhibitions, Resourcing and Deployment Officer with   British Council, Tamara Bwire, said they attended the exhibitions to educate Tanzanians on IELTS examinations. She said British Council also is the coordinator of Commonwealth Scholarship programs for people who would wish to study in UK from Masters level. She said one of the criteria for someone to win the scholarship is to be the citizen of commonwealth countries like Tanzania and must have the Upper Second Class. Tamara said another criteria for the scholarship is for the applicant to show his/her admission to one of the UK universities. "People should take interest and visit our website www.britishcouncil.or.tz to see different opportunities available and get correct information concerning IELTS examinations and how to register for the scholarship ... we are also available at GEL pavilion," she said.