AFTER a 1-0 away win over Somalia, Taifa Stars Head Coach Kim Poulsen said they still need to work hard on the striking force ahead of the return leg match saying it is a difficult encounter. The Tanzanian envoys began their quest for Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) finals on a positive note with a 1-0 victory at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Abdul Sulemani netted the winner on the day to give his side a breathing space ahead of the return leg to be staged at the same venue on Saturday and the winner will cruise into the second round against Uganda. "It was a tricky game for us, I think in the first half, the shape of the team was better than in the second half. We scored early in the second half and there were a number of great chances as the game progressed. "In my opinion, it was not the best football, the pitch made it difficult to play fast football we wanted but we must now focus on the return match and work hard to do well," he said. He continued: "It is always difficult to play with a team which defend well and stay compact...we have to be better in the last third and we will do a lot of training to improve that part. "Also, mentally, when you play a game which you are favourite to win, you need to invest and in these days, it is a hard job, you must be ready to be aggressive," he said. The coach then forecasted another tense match against  Somalia while hoping that the pitch will be great to let them play a faster game saying that will be good for them. He also vowed to get solutions to open up the opponents’ defence after realising that they are able to keep the ball but making it big in the final third is still a challenge among his charges. On his part, Somalia coach Rachi Lousteque hailed Taifa Stars for the victory as he blamed the wet pitch for the loss they conceded on the day. "It is good to see that my players utilised well the game plan we had before the game. We created at least three best scoring opportunities but inshallah, in the second leg, we will be able to win. "It is not yet over, we have the second match on Saturday and another chance to do well. We will analyse today's (Saturday) match to see how the best we can play to win the next encounter," he said. However, contrary to the first leg match whereby Somalia hosted the game, on Saturday, Taifa Stars will be the hosting side as they are close to seal a breakthrough into the next round of CHAN qualifiers.