THE ruling party, CCM, has hailed President Samia Suluhu Hassan for appointing Ms Tuma Abdallah as Managing Director of Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), expressing trust that the state-owned publisher will carry out its role of informing and educating the nation more efficiently under her leadership. Speaking at TSN Headquarters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, CCM's Ideology and Publicity Secretary Shaka Hamdu Shaka applauded President Samia for appointing Ms Abdallah to lead the company, which publishes `Daily News,’ Sunday News, HabariLEO, HabariLEO Jumapili and Spotileo. “Let me thank President Samia for seeing the importance of appointing her to lead this important institution which holds national interests,” said Mr Shaka in a meeting with TSN staff. “President Samia has bestowed trust on her and you (staff) should accord cooperation to Ms Abdallah to enable the company to achieve its objectives. During a short period of Samia’s leadership we have witnessed that more women are trusted to hold top positions and they have been proving their capacity.” He said the TSN has been a close partner to the CCM and has been working with the party shoulder by shoulder all the time in pushing the country’s development agendas while implementing its core duty of serving as an information bridge between the government and citizens. Shaka commended the TSN for proficiently informing the public about government activities, plans and the strides made. “You have been doing well in executing this noble duty. You should continue investing more in infrastructures for effectively informing the public,” he said. He told the company that more investment was necessary in order to keep pace with the technological growth in the media sector, pledging that the party would advise the government to fast-track procurement of the modern commercial printing machine for the company. “Let me assure you (TSN) that we (CCM) value your contribution. But, on the other hand we also evaluate your performance since you are an institution under the government which belongs to the CCM,” he said. Mr Shaka commended President Samia’s sixth-phase government for initiating the process of procuring a modern printing machine. He showered praise on President Samia, saying her great efforts are good for economic, social and political development. “When you look where we came from and where we are, you would see a significant transformation. Let us admit that compared to previous times, today we witness the country opening up economically and diplomatically. The president needs media support to speak out about this extensively.” He stated that the ruling CCM party is satisfied with the way President Samia supervises and implements the party’s election manifesto (2020-25), arguing that the president has kept Tanzania on the global map. “We have been doing assessments every three months starting from the grassroots. Through political committees from grassroots level to regional level we evaluate implementation of the election manifesto countrywide. And at the national level the implementation is evaluated during meetings of the National Executive Committee (NEC), Central Committee and party’s secretariat,” he said. He said a number of development projects were being implemented and will be completed as planned.  ----ENDS/Anderson———        