TAIFA Stars Head Coach Kim Poulsen has said today's international friendly against South Sudan will help a lot to weigh up his squad before facing Somalia in the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers. Poulsen charges host South Sudan today at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in a build up match prior to the crucial CHAN qualifier at the same venue on Saturday. "Tomorrow morning (today), we will have an international friendly match against South Sudan and I will use all players because we need to see them in action. Training is one thing and is good but the match is very important. "To put all of our players in the friendly game will help to give us some questions and answers. So far, preparations are going on well and it is nice to see players enjoying each other again... it is like a family and there is a good atmosphere. "I think Tanzania fans always love football, we are starting our journey for CHAN qualifications and we have set our targets of which we want to go all the way to the final. "To achieve that, we need to play a two-legged match versus Somalia here in Dar es Salaam and the winner of the two games hopefully Tanzania shall face Uganda and the winner there hopefully Tanzania will qualify for CHAN finals," he said. He further observed that in order to achieve something, good preparation is important while insisting that his charges are preparing well and we do also conduct tactical sessions at the hotel," he said. Initially, Somalia were set to host the match in their country but instead, they opted to use Benjamin Mkapa venue meaning that Taifa Stars will be the guest team on the day and the two teams will play again on July 30th at the same venue. As such; the envoys have an upper hand to utilise this opportunity of staging both matches in the country at a venue they are used to play. On his part, goalkeeper Aishi Manula also reiterated that they are progressing well with drills prior to Saturday's game saying each player is grasping the imparted skills. "We regrouped for camp timely which shows how serious we are to ensure that we do well in these two matches and qualify to play for CHAN finals. "The most important thing is for us to focus on what the coach is tasking us to do so as to excel in our two preliminary matches. We have new faces in the team, a thing which is a privilege to them to showcase that they deserve to play in the national team," Manula said. He also revealed that since the event attracts home based players, most of them have managed to get a chance of being called into the squad as such, an advantage to express their potential. Again, Manula said they will not have excuses if they fail to impress because all the players in the current squad are trading in the domestic league which gives them confidence to an intended job.