THE government has assured the Morogoro based tobacco processing factory to address challenges facing it in a bid to ensure smooth running of the business. The government through two Ministers of Investment, Industry and Trade Dr Ashatu Kijaji, and Agriculture Hussein Bashe, promised to do their best to ensure industries, such as Alliance One Tobacco, in the country are well protected with laws, policies and any other related trade practices to survive. Dr Kijaji said the ministry would do its best to ensure the factory gets enough raw materials to maximise utilisation of its processing capacity and not otherwise. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan always stresses the need to protect these industries at any cost. Therefore, share with us all issues, which might be hindering your efforts towards sustainable growth,” she said. On his part, Mr Bashe urged for fair play in the tobacco sub-sector, while calling upon stakeholders to abide by the laws and regulations governing the sector. “We urge all players to abide by the laws, rules and regulations provided for in the Tobacco Act…all the way from how best to engage farmers to the source of green leaf tobacco to environmental conservation,” Mr Bashe said. Earlier, Alliance One Managing Director Ephraim Mapoore said they are facing a number of challenges including pending tax disputes with Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), especially exorbitant charge leaving them with two options—to either pay or close business. Mr Mapoore added that they also face unreliable water supply, adding that there no water pipe system connecting them with the Morogoro Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (MORUWASA)—leaving them now to depend on wells and water dams. He added that due to erratic power supply they are forced to use 600 litres of diesel a day to process merely one-third of their need and the rest expected to come from Tanesco. Nevertheless, the two cabinet ministers who visited the factory over the weekend were impressed by the size of investment Alliance One made and the number of employments it has created. Alliance One started processing tobacco almost two decade and half ago, and currently has 350 permanent employees as well 3000 seasonal workers.