VICE-PRESIDENT, Dr Philip Mpango is today expected to grace the inauguration of a state-of-the-art laboratory at Kibong’oto Specialised Infectious Diseases Hospital in Siha District, Kilimanjaro region. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Stephen Kagaigai revealed that to journalists on Thursday, noting that the event will be part of the VP’s four-day official tour of the region. “Vice-President Dr Mpango will start his official tour of the region on July 15, 2022, (yesterday) whereby among other activities he will inaugurate the new laboratory at Kibong’oto on Saturday (today). “This hospital which has so far cost more than 3.4b/- is being built with funds provided by the government as part of its ongoing plans to improve the health sector by moving the services closer to the people”, he said. According to RC Kagaigai, on Monday Dr Mpango is expected to lay a foundation stone for construction of the Rombo District Hospital , which is situated at the Kiwanda village, Kirongo Samanga ward, Kilimanjaro region. He called upon people to turn up t in large numbers to receive the Vice President as well as taking part in the two events which he said were of great benefits to Kilimanjaro Region and the nation in general. Kibong’oto l Hospital Executive Director of Dr Leonard Subi, said all preparations related to launching of the laboratory have been completed. He said the inauguration of the state-of-the-art laboratory would be a catalyst in the continuation of global health improvements by Kibong’oto Hospital that he said recently made a milestone by eliminating the use of injections in treating Tuberculosis (TB) patients and replace it by TB treatment medicinal drugs. “This new laboratory will motivate medics to continue providing quality services that will be based on improved scientific standards”, he said. Dr Subi further said that the new laboratory would play a big role, as far as the scientific activities within the hospital are concerned, which he said included the development of various vaccines meant to treat infectious diseases as well as Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) tests.