MINISTER for Livestock and Fisheries, Mashimba Ndaki has called upon   livestock researchers to conduct studies which will help to boost production and increase efficiency in the sector. He said at a livestock stakeholders’ meeting in Dodoma this week that most of livestock keepers in the country were still keeping animals in traditional ways which contribute little in the sector's growth. "If we will continue keeping animals the way we are doing today,  we are going to cause problems in the future  because  of limited land  for grazing ... researchers  should  come up with answers   aimed at addressing  this  challenge," said the minister in his opening remarks of the meeting. In this financial year the ministry has planned to conduct a countrywide campaign to educate livestock keepers on better and more productive ways in the sector.  "We are going to start educating the livestock keepers on modern ways of keeping the animals and we will continue with our campaign until the message reaches all the targeted groups in the country," he said. Mr  Ndaki added  that,  the ministry has  also set aside budget  for  educating livestock keepers  on  animal feeds  and  climate change  so that  they can  shift  from  traditional ways  to commercial  livestock keeping. Commenting on  the shortage of  extension officers, Minister Ndaki said that the government would employ  more than 300  officers  in this financial year  in efforts to reduce the shortage  and purchase  more than 1,000 motorcycles  to  enable the experts  to reach  people  and serve  them. The Acting  Permanent Secretary  in the Ministry of  Livestock and Fisheries, Dr  Charles Mhina  said that  the government would continue to  create enabling environment  for private sector as important   stakeholder  in the development of the livestock sector. Tabling the ministry's budget in august House, Mr Ndaki said that the budget among others targets to transform the subsectors to contribute more to the national income. He informed the National Assembly plans of programmes and activities to be carried in 2022/2023 financial year aimed at driving commercial livestock keeping and fisheries. He requested Members of Parliament to approve the 268.252bn/- budget of which 92.050bn/- is for livestock sector and 176.201 for fisheries. He said that in efforts to encourage commercial livestock and increase efficiency in the subsector, the National Ranching Company (NARCO) is intending to lease its five blocks with 32,500 hectares to Tanzanian and foreign investors. “The blocks will be advertised through the media and Tanzanian National e-Procurement System (TANePS)… investors who will be given priorities are those who will have proper business plans aimed at raising quality livestock breeds for meet and diary production,” he said. He said the investors will also be required to develop grazing farms, and produce quality seeds for pastures, provide market for products produced by small scale livestock keepers including providing them with quality breeds. “They will also bring in new livestock technology including setting up factories for processing livestock products,” the minister added. 