Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has launched a public awareness campaign for communication service stakeholders and ordinary wananchi, to avoid online fraudsters. Speaking on the campaign in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, the Authority’s Head of the Communication and Public Relations, Ms Lucy Mbogoro said the regulator is determined to guarantee that more users are reached with information on the proper, safe, and productive use of the internet. “It is good for citizens to continue to have a broad understanding of avoiding internet fraud, which is why, we have come up with this campaign,” she said. To attain the milestone, she said the TCRA is deploying various strategies including educating mobile communication service users on how to verify their phone lines by dialing *106# and then following the on-screen instructions. By dialling the number, she added, users would be able to know registration status as well as unfamiliar phone numbers that might be linked with theirs. “It is advisable to get your SIM cards verified because it is impossible to guess who would register their mobile phone numbers using your National Identity number. This verification procedure is crucial for protecting the security of communication services users, especially in light of the potential repercussions of illegal activity. “To ensure your safety while using communication services, I urge my fellow Tanzanians to double-check their active simcards,” she emphasised. Concerning fraudsters who send text messages asking the service users to send money or other messages with signs of fraud, she said that the user should send a word “Fraud” to 15040. After sending the text, a sender will get instructions which will require them to report the number linked to fraudsters. “If you send fraudulent information straight to that number, the system will respond by reporting fraud via this short code. We as users of communications services must assist law enforcement in investigating and arresting fraudsters,” she stated. Manager of Communications Users and Consumers at TCRA Thadayo Ringo stressed the significance of the campaign in lowering fraud incidences among communication service users.