ZANZIBAR President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has directed two ministries responsible for land, energy and minerals to start implementing a special programme focusing on protecting land owned by the government by issuing title deeds to avoid encroachment by individuals. Mwinyi issued the directives on Saturday while winding up his two-day tour of Unguja South region where he inspected development projects and those being implemented through Covid-19 relief package. He said it is crucial for government plots to be surveyed and provided with title deeds as a strategy to prevent invasion. The president noted that land disputes involving wananchi and security forces have already been worked out and the report has been presented to his office. He  commended the Ministry  of Education and Vocational Training  for  coming up  with  inclusive schools (integrated  schools),  noting that  the  step will provide  opportunity  to students with special needs  to have access  to education in better environment. "What is needed now is to get teachers who can teach students with special needs", he said. The President commended regional authorities and security committee for ensuring safety in the region. Meanwhile, Dr Mwinyi urged executives to supervise well tenders on large scale projects so that they can be implemented to the required standards. Dr Mwinyi made the call yesterday in Mtule, South Unguja region during the launch of Mtule Secondary School after a major renovation following several challenges that were facing the school, including its classrooms leakage. He said that the school  could not have undergone such major rehabilitation  if the executives had not supervised the work well when issuing the tender for the first time. He said failure could have  caused  the government  to spend a lot of money  in renovating it, warning that it should serve as lesson to other  government officials. Moreover, the President of Zanzibar also ordered the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training to provide all the necessary materials, including furniture,  learning and teaching material  to Mtule Secondary School so that students can get  quality education. “There is the need  for the ministry to provide equipment and learning materials to the school, including computers and fences so that students can get  quality education,” he said. In a related development, Dr Mwinyi instructed the ministry to  consider the possibility of constructing a dormitory for boys. Meanwhile, Dr Mwinyi participated in the handing over of boats and bajajis to fishermen, seaweed farmers and entrepreneurs of South Unguja District, in an event held in Paje South Unguja Region. He further noted that the handover is the execution of the ruling party’s election manifesto of 2020-2025 which aimed at providing wananchi with modern equipment for production, asking them to use them as intended. “The government is ready to provide large boats to wananchi, but what is needed is to ensure they can return the borrowed money, which is paid without interest.” Dr Mwinyi insisted. Dr Mwinyi implored Zanzibaris  to continue forming and joining groups so that they could easily access loans. For his part, Blue Economy and Fisheries Minister Suleiman Masoud Makame said the South Unguja Region has a total of 77 fishing boats, and 75 boats for seaweed groups, adding that their expectation is to generate about 5,000 employment opportunities.