Vice-President Philip Mpango has rooted for more research in tackling infectious diseases in the country. Speaking on Saturday, Dr Mpango urged health researchers to dwell on digging the root causes of infectious diseases and their remedies through research. "Infectious diseases are still hovering over us, it is imperative that we put more emphasis on research in addressing such diseases,” explained Dr Mpango, while inaugurating a modern public laboratory at Kibong’oto Specialised Infectious Diseases Hospital. With concern, he noted the number of Tanzanians succumbing to infectious diseases urging health experts to prioritise research. According to the Vice-President, a good number of Tanzanians who die of infectious diseases, are those who fail to diagnose their conditions on time, due to lack of labs. "Studies have shown that many people have lost their lives due to infectious diseases as a result of the delay in getting proper diagnosis,” he said. Dr Mpango exuded optimism that the state-of-the-art laboratory comes in handy and will assist in early detection of infectious diseases in Tanzania. Equally, the VP assured that the government will continue prioritising research, singling out the lab as one of the initiatives. He elaborated: “The lab will enhance service delivery at the medical facility while also contain spread of infectious diseases.” Adding: “The government will continue prioritising on science and technology to keep pace with the ever changing world.” In the same vein, the Vice-President paid tribute to the staff of the state run medical facility for their dedication and commitment of offering quality medical services to Tanzanians, saying: “A continued support to the hospital in the near future is there on the side of the government and us all.” Minister for Health Ms Ummy Mwalimu acknowledged the VP’s gesture of honoring and valuing the contribution of researchers in the country. She said: "These awards will be a great motivation for researchers and will give them the impetus of working even harder.” Commenting on the newly launched lab at the facility, he said it will not only serve TB related services, but also turn the hospital into a force to reckon with in several spheres of treating different diseases.” The hospital is a specialised public referral hospital for the treatment of infectious diseases. The centre has a long history as an institution for the treatment of tuberculosis, established as a sanatorium in 1926, before antibiotics were available to treat tuberculosis. The hospital is also responsible for protection against infectious diseases and it operates across the border to Kenya. It was once involved in emergency preparedness plans during the Ebola outbreak in 2014. 