NGORONGORO Conservation Area is a World Heritage Site located 180 kilometres west of Arusha city. Paleontologists say Ngorongoro was formed about 2.5 million years ago from a large active volcano whose cone collapsed inward after a major eruption, leaving the present vast, unbroken caldera as its chief remnant. From historical to scientific point of view, the main feature of the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority is the Ngorongoro Crater, the world’s largest inactive, intact and unfilled volcanic caldera. The caldera’s floor is predominantly open grassland. It is home to a diverse array of animals including elephants, black rhinoceroses, leopards, buffalo, zebras, warthogs, wildebeests and Thomson’s gazelles. Unlike many national parks in East Africa, Ngorongoro is well known for its densest population of lions in the world. In a unique way, the local Maasai people also graze their livestock in the crater, the beauty of this place can be seen around Lake Magadi, a shallow soda lake ringed by extinct volcanoes, is renowned as a habitat for great flocks of pink flamingos. Originally part of the Serengeti National Park when the latter was established by the British in 1951, in 1959 the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) was formed, separating NCA from Serengeti. The NCCA’s wildlife and land has been a UNESCO site since 1979 and now its cultural heritage is to be included. The NCAA is the only site in the world with a high concentration of wildlife living in harmony with human communities. The multiple land use systems in this area are among the earliest to be established around the world as a means of reconciling human development and conserving natural resources. One of us may ask, what are World heritage sites? Heritage is legacy from the past, what we live with today, and what we pass on to future generations. Our cultural and natural heritage are both irreplaceable sources of life and inspiration. Places are unique and diverse as the wilds of East Africa’s Serengeti, the pyramids of Egypt, the Great Barrier Reef in Australia and the Baroque cathedrals of Latin America make up our world heritage sites. What makes the concept of world ‘Heritage’ exceptional is its universal application. World Heritage Sites belong to all the people of the world irrespective of the territory on which they are located. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) seeks to encourage the identification, protection and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value of humanity. This is embodied in an international treaty called the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Culture and Natural Heritage, adopted by UNESCO in 1972. The World Heritage List includes 98 properties forming part of the cultural and natural heritage which the World Heritage Committee considers as having outstanding universal value. These include 749 cultural, 193 natural and 29 mixed properties in 160 states parties. UNESCO’s World Heritage mission is to: Encourage countries to sign the World Heritage Convention and to ensure the protection of their natural and cultural Heritage and encourage State Parties to the Convention to nominate sites within their national territory for inclusion on the World Heritage list. The organisation also helps states parties safeguard World Heritage properties by providing technical assistance and professional training and supports State Parties’ public awareness building activities for World Heritage conservation. It also encourages participation of the local population in the preservation of their cultural and natural heritage. Inscription on the World Heritage List is the first step in the World Heritage mission. Coordinated through the World Heritage Centre, States parties, NGOs, corporations and local populations are active across the globe in support of the goals of the World Heritage convention. Every year thousands of projects, with different values, are undertaken in support of World Heritage. Only countries that have signed the World Heritage Convention pleadgig to protect their natural cultural heritage Centre can submit nomination proposals for properties on their territory to be considered for inclusion in UNESCO’s World Heritage list. Once a site has been nominated and evaluated, it is up to the intergovernmental world Heritage Committee to make the final decision on its inscription. Once a year, the Committee meets to decide on sites to be inscribed on the World Heritage on the World Heritage List. It can also defer its decision and request further information on sites from the States Parties. To be included on the world Heritage List, sites must be of outstanding universal value and meet at least one out of ten selection criteria. To represent a masterpiece of human creative genius. To exhibit an important interchange of human values, over a span of time or within a cultural area of the world, on technology, monumental arts, town planning or landscape design. To bear a unique or at least exception testimony to a cultural traditional or to a civilization which is living or which has disappeared. To be an outstanding example of a type of building, architectural or technological ensemble or landscape which illustrates a significant stage in human history. To be an outstanding example of a traditional human settlement, land-use, or sea-use which is representative of a culture or beliefs, or human interaction with the environment especially when it has become vulnerable under the impact of irreversible change. To be directly or tangibly associated with events or living traditions, with ideas, or with beliefs, with artistic and literary works of outstanding universal significance. Sometime the Committee considers that this criterion should preferably be used in conjunction with other criteria. To contain superlative natural phenomena or areas of exceptional beauty and aesthetic importance; To be outstanding examples representing major stages of earth’s history, including the record of life, significant on going geological processes in the development of landforms or significant geomorphic or physiographic features. To be outstanding example representing significant on going ecological and biological processes in the evolution and development of terrestrial, fresh water, coastal and marine ecosystems and communities of plants animals; To contain the most important and significant natural habitats for in-situ conservation of biological diversity, including those containing threatened species of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation. The protection, management, authenticity and integrity of properties are also important considerations. The overarching benefit of ratifying the World Heritage Convention is that of belonging to an international community of appreciation and concern for universally significant properties that embody a world of outstanding examples of cultural diversity and natural wealth. The States Parties to the Convention, by joining hands to protect and cherish the world’s natural and cultural heritage, express a shared commitment to preserving our legacy for future generations. The prestige that comes from being a State Party to the Convention and having sites inscribed on the World Heritage List often serves as a catalyst to raising awareness for heritage preservation. Inscribing a site on the World Heritage List is not the end of the story. Site managers and local authorities continuously work towards managing, monitoring and preserving the World Heritage properties. States parties have an obligation to regularly prepare reports about the state of conservation and various protection measures put in at their sites. These reports allow the World Heritage Committee to assess the conditions at the sites and eventually to decide on the necessity of adopting specific measures to resolve recurrent problems. One such measure could be the inscription of property on the List of World Heritage in Danger. According to the World Heritage Operational Guidelines, sites are in a Danger List in response to ‘potential’ or ‘ascertained’ threats to their outstanding universal value. These threats could be anything from an earthquake to the negative effects of over-tourism, or even a proposed urban development project that is not in keeping with the sites values. As the range of threats is quite broad. List in Danger can be seen as a very flexible tool, intended to be employed as the need arises. The NCAA is part of the greater Serengeti Ecosystem where by every year at the end of November short rains fall on the grasslands of the savannah. This is a welcoming gesture for migratory animals who arrive on the southern part in prime areas. Scientists say the short rains stimulate the growth of fresh and nutritious grasses which attract 1,300,000 wildebeests, 250,000 zebra and more than 300,000 antelopes. This is a magnificent event which has made the Serengeti Ecosystem to be very popular throughout the world, and this raises many questions from different people about the reasons of this larger than life journey. Every year in orderly timing they move from south to east, north and west then back to south following the emerging rich in minerals greener grasses. Since they need enough food and water all year around wildebeest, zebra and gazelles must follow the movement of the rains for a good and reliable source of grasses and water. Scientists say with a special and powerful instinct wild animals are capable of smelling storms of rains building up many miles away. This exceptional ability plays a big role in the timing of the rains for their departure from one area to another, thanks goes to nature for growing grasses during and after the rain seasons. Some experienced tour guides and zoologists say it is a matured male zebra with enough experience of the migration route who blows the whistle for the migration to take off , allowing others to follow it to the greener pastures in one part of the greater ecosystem. Zoologists say when wildebeest, zebra and gazelles migrate along the Serengeti plains other animals also follow them, these include lions, cheetahs, hyenas, jackals, and big birds such as vultures and Marabou Stocks, The strength of this epic journey is almost beyond comparable because not crocodiles of Grumeti River, powerful waves of Mara River or even wildfire is not able to stop it. This is one of the oldest cultures on Earth because history shows that wildebeests evolved in southern part of Africa about 2.5 million years ago but due to different changes in their natural ecology they decided to migrate to East Africa. Those were the ancestors of modern wildebeests which are more strong, bigger and inquisitive than their fellow that is why they had the courage to cross rivers, hills and other wildness looking for new pastures in East Africa from about one million years ago. Scientists say many factors contributed into attracting wildebeests to migrate although different researches indicate that about 3.7 million years ago, the whole area on south Sahara in Africa experienced severe climate changes. It was during this time when most parts of Africa south of Sahara came under powerful winds which was sweeping from the Indian Ocean after being trigged by a dangerous Elnino weather. Researchers say that happened about 2.5 million years ago when volcano from the Great Rift Valley was building Mount Kilimanjaro which was accompanied with volatile eruption on the northern parts of Tanzanian today. Without knowledge of what the nature was putting in place for them, from South Africa more than one million years ago blue wildebeests moved northward where they maintain their spirit of migrating from one place to another throughout the year from one generation to another. Emails: rstanslaus@yahoo.com