ZANZIBAR   President Dr Hussein Mwinyi has stressed the need for conducting research on defence and security issues in order to counter global security threats and for national development. Dr Mwinyi made the remarks in Dar es Salaam on Saturday during the tenth National Defense College (NDC) graduation ceremony held at the college. He said the college is crucial especially at present where the world is faced with myriad security and defence challenges and threats such as terrorism, civil wars, cybercrimes, illicit drugs, environmental degradation and climate change. The President said that there are crucial issues related to security and defence which need to be researched in order to counter the threats, stressing the need to use the results for development of the nation. He noted that when there are security challenges in one nation, they can have an impact on the development and prosperity of other nations. Dr Mwinyi gave an example of Russia - Ukraine war, saying it has affected world economy which led to an increase in prices of commodities, food security, immigrants, international relations and political instabilities. "In order to deal effectively with the current challenges facing the world, it will depend on how the country has prepared itself and its relations with other nations," he said. He said based on such grounds, NDC is crucial for the development of Tanzania and in upholding peace and harmony. He further said that both Union and Zanzibar governments are pleased to see that the country has    many officers in defence and security organs as well as in government institutions who have received training from the college. Dr Mwinyi conveyed his best wishes to participants of the special training which will be conducted this year and which will include deputy ministers, permanent secretaries and their deputies, directors, regional commissioners, regional administrative secretaries and leaders from government institutions. “It is my hope that all participants will use the opportunity availed to them by participating fully in the training prepared to meet the needs of their works," he said. He further commended the college for continuing to attract   participants from East African partner states (EAC) Southern African Development Community (SADC), Nigeria, Egypt and other countries within and outside Africa. The NDC Principal, Major General Ibrahim Mhona, said that a total of 43 participants graduated this year after undergoing training for 47 weeks. He said the college provides training on important strategic issues related to defence and security to various leaders.