PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan's recent visit to Oman is now paying dividends as the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) has received a team of investors from the Middle East nation, interested in agriculture and livestock sector. TIC Acting Director of Investment Promotion, Mr Revocatus Rasheli said  on Thursday  in Dodoma that they received  members of the business community team from Oman, who have shown interest to invest in commercial farming and livestock sector. “We have received the business entourage from Oman who are exploring investment opportunities with areas of interest being in commercial farming and livestock. “TIC has coordinated engagement and is organising meetings between the local business communities with the Oman counterparts both from private and public sectors, engaging in agriculture and livestock sector,” he said. He said the team, which has been in the country since early this week, visited and held talks with officials from the National Ranching Corporation (NARCO), SUMA JKT, Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA), Meat Board and Cereals and Other Produce Board (CPB). While addressing the Oman-Tanzania Business Council in Muscat, Oman during her visit mid-June this year, President Samia outlined why investors should choose Tanzania as a favourable investment destination. President Samia outlined reasons as traditional, historical and blood ties, presence of peace, stability, good governance and conducive investment environment as factors giving Tanzania a competitive edge in terms of investment. Others are the confidence brought by its membership in international agreements and memberships especially in trade dispute resolutions. She said Tanzania also has a stable macro-economic and fiscal policy regime and it is ranked among the fastest growing economies in Africa, which is committed to fostering a private sector driven economy. President Samia Suluhu Hassan has always insisted that she wants the agriculture sector to be commercialised so that it can contribute immensely to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). She said, however, this would require large investments as well as significant increase in the budget for the sector to grow. This is why the government will spend a whopping 751bn/- in this financial year’s budget  for the sector, an increase of 155 per cent compared to the amount spent in 2021/2022 financial year, where the government had allocated 294bn/-. Agriculture remains central to Tanzania’s industrialisation and a source of livelihood for approximately 65.0 per cent of the population. Under the Third Five Year Development Plan (FYDP III) 2021/22-2025/26, Tanzania is seeking to build a strong and competitive economy. For the duration of the FYDP III, efforts are directed to consolidate and further scale up the achievements, so far recorded and explore opportunities afforded by the adoption of Climate Smart According to the document, agriculture approaches (CSA). Upgrading of the sector’s competitiveness will continue to develop strong forward and backward linkages between agriculture sector and other economic sectors, create favourable environments for the private sector to engage profitably in production and export of agricultural raw materials, semi-final and finished goods. It will also continue strengthening effective training and research programmes to benefit key stakeholders including youths, women and people with disabilities. The interventions will increase value and productivity of agricultural production, employment creation, expand the diversification of products and strengthen the value chain in agricultural sector. Speaking after the Oman investors’ tour, Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade, Mr Exaud Kigahe welcomed them to tap a number of investment opportunities available in the country. He said Tanzania is endowed with an uncountable number of arable basins or valleys suitable for supporting irrigation farming. He said investing in irrigation farming will help transform the sector. He directed the officials from both parties to sit and together see how they can strengthen trade ties between the two countries as there are a lot of untapped business opportunities including goods and services. Mr Kigahe said as of June 2022, there were a total of 62 Oman based investment projects in the country in the areas of industries,real estate business, transport and tourism which have injected 303.35 US million dollarswith 2,488employments created. Tanzanian Ambassador to Oman, Mr Abdallah Kilima, who accompanied the entourage, said the trip followed President Samia’s invitation for Oman business communities to invest in the country. He said the team comprised members from Oman Food Investment Holding Company which organised the trip led by the Chief Executive Officer, Eng Saleh Al Shanfari, other members are from Arab Authority for Agriculture Investment and Agriculture Development. Others are Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, Al-Rajhi International for Investment from Saudi Arabia, Oman Investment Authority-OIA and Al-Bashayer Meat Co. SAOC.