THE demand for a seven-year Treasury bond continues to weaken as appetite for the medium tenor fades faster than expected. The bond bid to cover ratio per Wednesday primary auction showed the ratio plummeted further down to 1.4 from 1.75 of two months ago when the instrument went to hammer. Exodus Advisory Chief Executive Officer Ramadhani Kagandwi told ‘Daily News’ on Thursday that another indication for lower demand was the level of subscription against the amount offered and successful bids. “The weak demand for the auction could be seen in its bid to cover ratio that is amount tendered to amount offered,” Mr Kagandwi said. One way of looking at the bid-cover ratio is by considering the number of bids received which were 57againts successful 42, this comes to a ratio of 1.4 and indicates unattractive demand as compared to the standard ratio of 2.0 and above. The government sought to raise 130.1bn/- but only 47.9bn/- was tendered. At the end of the day, the government took 25.5bn/- leaving the rest on the auction table—under subscription of 63 per cent. “From this, [amount tendered], it can be clearly seen that 0.37 ratio was a bid-to-cover, that’s less than 1,” Exodus CEO said adding that on the secondary market, for the past week and so, there has been no any transaction for seven-year Treasury bond. “These altogether indicated less demand…not only on primary markets but also on the secondary market”. Further, the 9.48 per cent seven-year bond average yield to maturity only moved to 13 basis points and was traded at a discount of 98/100. Alpha Capital, Head of Research and Financial Analytics ……………………………..said although it for a while not been investors’ favourite, the seven years T-bond is increasingly falling out of favour for both, the issuer, the central bank, and investors since the last it was oversubscribed was May 2021 while yielding 10.11 per cent. “The central bank maintained three seven-year auctions in the current issuance calendar, similar to the previous calendar, despite increasing the total number of bond auctions from 26 to 32, at the expense of bills auctions,” Mr Muhingo said. The central bank favoured the long-term maturities of 20 and 25 years as it maintained the debt management strategy to lengthen the maturity profile of domestic debt. Vertex International Securities,  Advisory and Capital Markets Manager, Ahmed Nganya said indeed, the seven-year bond continues to perform below par in auctions as investors’ appetite for the paper seems at its lowest level. “Currently, bond prices have declined in the secondary market and investors are able to secure bonds of similar tenor or fewer years with higher coupon rates at higher yields of above 9.00per cent, which renders the seven-year bond unattractive at its current coupon rate. “We think it might take time for the tenor to recover in performance during auctions,” Mr Nganya said. The decrease in demand for the seven-year bond may be influenced by the increase in interest rates whereby investors are pulled to move to commercial banks investment which offers up to 9.0 per cent or more interest rate on fixed deposit compared to 9.48 per cent pledged on the seven-year bond auction.