MINISTER for Education, Science and Technology Prof Adolf Mkenda has called on the leadership of the Tanzania Scouts Association (TSA), in the country to ensure that they reinforce discipline and ethical values among teachers and students in Elaborating, he noted that the newly elected leaders must be at the forefront of ensuring that increasing bad manners in primary and secondary schools such as sexual harassment, misconduct and other incidents are checked and brought to an end. Elaborating, he noted that students should be kept busy by leaders coming up with activities that would ensure a healthy mind in a healthy body to foster discipline. Speaking during the opening of the TSA general meeting, which culminated into elections over the weekend, Prof Mkenda instructed the leadership to ensure they address indiscipline issues. Equally, he suggested that the scout's drill and exercise should be used as a tool to strengthen ethical values among students in schools at all levels. “I urge you to address bad behaviours whose main source is lack of indiscipline, improper upbringing and lack of life skills from the tender age. Scouts in schools must be role models…they must inspire others to observe highest degree of discipline.” said Prof Mkenda Prof Mkenda also called on the scout's leadership to stop promoting and provoking conflicts in the association, saying it paints a bad image to the association. “Today, let us close the old chapter and start a new down for TSA, be united so that you bring discipline, and integrity to the association,” he insisted For his part, the Deputy Minister for Education and Vocational Training in Zanzibar, Mr Ally Abdulgulam Hussein said that there is every reason to make changes to the constitution of the association in the country to reflect the position of Zanzibar. The outgoing Chief Scout Mwantumu Mahiza said the association's main goals are to build an international scouts training camp, adding: “President Samia Suluhu Hassan promised to implement the promise made by the late Dr John Magufuli to provide 20bn/- for the construction of an investment building in Dodoma. “The incoming leaders have a responsibility to implement the goals we have started…we need this association to continue to be stronger so that it helps the youth to live up their dreams. We need to settle in Dodoma, so you must accomplish the mission,” he added.