PROTECTED areas in Tanzania are extremely varied, ranging from sea habitats over grasslands to the top of the Kilimanjaro, the tallest mountain in Africa. About a third of the country's total area is protected to a certain degree as a national park, game reserve, marine parks, forest reserve or the like. Nature Forest Reserves (NFRs) are a designation under the National Forest Act of Tanzania that offers the highest level of protection. NFRs are state-owned and are managed by the Tanzania Forest Services (TFS) Agency. No extraction of timber or animals is permitted in forest nature reserves, and activities are generally restricted to research, education, and naturebased tourism. We have several NFRs, some of them are located in the Eastern Arc Mountains. The term ‘Eastern Arc’ was introduced in 1985 to describe the forest-capped ancient crystalline mountains of eastern Tanzania and south-east Kenya, which are under the influence of the Indian Ocean climatic regime, and therefore contain predictable local climates (Lovett 1985). The area has been identified in all the major analyses of global biological priority. Starting in the 1970s, the ‘Eastern Arc Mountains’ were identified as a component of the Afromontane archipelago-like regional centre of endemism by White. The Eastern Arc Mountains are also a Global 200 Ecoregion of WWF, part of a biodiversity hotspot of Conservation International. They are major source of water in the region, as the forests attract rain almost throughout the year. It is because of their importance in people’s lives, the Eastern Arc Mountain Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF) has thrown its weight towards conserving the forests that are on the Tanzanian side. Ms Magreth Victors is the Projects Coordinator with EAMCEF in the Northern Zone, who says the Trust Fund that was established and functions as a long-term and reliable funding mechanism to support community development, biodiversity conservation and applied research projects, which promote the biological diversity, ecological functions and sustainable use of natural resources in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania. EAMCEF is involved in activities such as forest boundary management, nature trails establishment, and management, forest surveillance and rehabilitation of degraded areas, ecotourism support and marketing: through campsite establishment and improvement and infrastructure development, poultry keeping and dairy animal husbandry, butterfly farming, beekeeping, and fish farming, tree planting, agroforestry and horticulture. Other areas that EAMCEF supports are fruit production, capacity building and environmental conservation, reforestation and rehabilitation of degraded areas, as well as energy efficient stoves and biogas technology provision. “Our (EAMCEF) vision is to see that, the Eastern Arc Mountains and the people who depend on them live in harmony as one sustainable ecosystem. The forests and mountains will provide goods and services – from water to electrical power, from food and cash crops to medicinesfor the people of Tanzania. And the world community will benefit from a protected biodiversity hotspot and a major carbon sink reducing global warming and mitigating climate change impacts,” she says. It catalyses resources to foster conservation of forest biodiversity in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania through investment in sustainable community development and livelihood improvement, sustained financing for protected areas management and financial support to applied biodiversity and climate change research. One of the forests on the Arc is Nilo Nature Forest Reserve (NNFR) that was established in 2007. It is the second largest contiguous forest block under protection. The NNFR that is ‘’Y’ shaped, extends to Korogwe, Muheza and Mkinga districts. Around the NNFR, there are several groups that conduct economic activities that are aimed at earning them income, reduce environmental degradation in the forest as well as ensure people have good health. There is a group of technicians who make energysaving stoves in at Bosha Kwemtindi village in Mkinga district. Head of the technicians, Mr Hassan Kigwazo says they have so far covered 803 household, by constructing the energy-saving stoves that use little wood or some sort of bricks. The project is supported financially by EAMCEF and was initiated in 2016. Mr Kigwazo says instead of using about 10 pieces of firewood, they the special stoves uses only three, so respective households save money in their budgets, and also they do not have to go in the forest to collect firewood, as they have planted their own trees on their fields. “The energy-saving stoves also preserve food and leave it warm, as heat is retained in the enclosure. The group of technicians got training that was sponsored by EAMCEF before starting the work that is still go on,” says Mr Kigwazo. One of beneficiaries, Ms Reeti Thadeo says that she could use one load of wood for even a whole week, while in the past she used the same for only three days. “There is no longer trouble of going to the forest reserve to cut trees and get firewood. You just collect few pieces around your home and you have your food cooked,” she says. Another beneficiary is Ms Ana Shemdoe says before introduction of the energy saving stoves they used to fell many trees in Nilo forest, hence environmental degradation, that translated to little rain, hence water. “Now things have turned for the better; conservation is maintained, green scenery is back as it used to be many years back,” she says. Mwanaisha Hashim says she is happy that they now conserve the environment, no longer encroach the forest that is the source of rain and water. The Coordinator of the project in Mking, Mr Mudy Nyimbile, says they work on three villages around NNFR, passing through all hamlets to make the stoves and raise awareness to the public about benefits of using the energysaving stoves. “We train people on how effectively they can use the stoves and how to preserve them. So far in the three villages we have 1,890 energy saving stoves under our project,” he says. Boshe Kwemtindi Chairman, Mr Ramadhani Shembiu, says before EAMCEF intervened, Nilo forest was always being invaded and trees cut often for firewood. He says now villagers have no reason to go to the forest and families are leading a happy life. In Nilo Forest there are special sites of cultural importance used by local people as worshiping sites. Such sites include Holy water point at Kizara ward where there is myth that once upon a time a Bishop blessed the place after feeling thirsty and water came out to drink. Even today the water is still trickling. Other special sites include a campsite known as Denmark close to Kizara village which is the largest camping site formally used by Sikh Saw Mills for its logging crews. The road from Amani via Kizerui village towards Kizara village passes through this campsite. Tuvui falls and Kwemakulo area where one can view the famous Saint paulia and remnants of the Ocotea usambarensis patches are additional recreational areas in Nilo Nature Forest Reserve. The Zumbe Kuu falls near Kizerui village is at a height greater than 30 metres in the Semdoe River. Two worship areas are found at Lutindi peak and Kwemkole village called ‘Hundu’