THE Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MM) of India has offered a discount of 40 per cent of the costs for its scholarships to Tanzanian students who wish to study in its campus. The university has confirmed to participate in the universities exhibitions organised by Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU), scheduled to commence tomorrow at Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam. Other universities, which will take part in the exhibitions under the umbrella of Global Education Link (GEL), are from India, Iran Cyprus, Turkey, Georgia, Canada, Australia, Russia, United States of America and UK. Global Education Link Director Abdulmalik Mollel, who is the host of overseas universities, said the university has more than 35,000 students in one campus and two big hospitals within the campus for practical training. He said one of the hospitals has more than 1,200 beds and it provides health services for local citizens while the other one serves foreign communities. Mollel said the university which is located at Mulana Ambara has government accreditation and offers more than 350 different courses such as engineering and business management. “This is among the best universities in India, I encourage people to join it ...currently there are more than 100 Tanzanian students pursuing their studies and 200 have graduated,” he said. “Another qualification of this university is that it offers education from nursery school to secondary education level.  It goes further to offering courses from diploma, degree, Master to PhD levels at affordable costs,” he said. Mollel said the university has offered a discount of 40 per cent of scholarship costs to Tanzania students who would wish to study, welcoming them to attend the exhibitions where they will get instant enrollment. Mollel said that Sharda University located in Great Noida Delhi India, is another best university with vast experience in health courses. He said Great Noida is famous city in India which with more than 100 universities. “At Great Noida, Sharda is among the best universities which has more than 1,000 beds, and during the Covid-19 pandemic the hospital was selected to help treatment for the victims due to the use of advanced technology," he said. “Sharda has more than four campuses with 100 Tanzanian students   currently proceeding with their studies. More than 150 have already completed their studies," he said.