THE Arusha Regional Immigration Department has arrested 57 suspected illegal immigrants following an intensive 10-day operation at several villages within the Loliondo Game Controlled Area (LGCA). The suspects are scheduled to appear in court pending completion of investigations. Briefing reporters on Monday, Assistant Commissioner of Immigration Kagimbo Hosea said the territory-wide operation mounted by the Immigration Department zeroed in on seven villages found in the area. The villages include those found in Loliondo and Sale divisions, according to immigration regional boss commissioner. “The operation has yielded fruitful results and the suspects are due to appear in the dock, where they will be arraigned in court today,” he disclosed. Also arrested in the immigration dragnet are eight Tanzanians, who are believed to be accomplices of the illegal immigrants. The immigration regional boss stressed that apart from continuous checks throughout the territory, there was no let-up in anti-illegal immigration efforts in Loliondo. “A high state of vigilance will continue to be maintained by our ground officers,” he said. According to Commissioner Hosea, at least 10 Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) operating in the area were put under thorough scrutiny with a view of establishing the legitimacy of their motives in the area. “We met and interrogated the owners of these organisations and their staff, the interrogations are still ongoing,” he disclosed. Many of the villagers, who once occupied the makeshift bomas, fled their homes during the ten-day special operation, according to Commissioner Hosea. “Most of them abandoned their homes and this suggests that many of them weren’t from Tanzania,” he added. Last month, the Commissioner General of Immigration (CGI) Anna Makakala, declared a 10-day- operation aimed at flushing out illegal immigrants from the LGCA. This was per a directive issued earlier by Home Affairs Minister, Hamad Yusuf Masauni. The CGI disclosed that her department had deployed a sufficient number of officers on the ground, to identify and weed out the aliens. “Following the minister’s directive, I’m hereby announcing a 10-day swift operation of identifying foreigners, who do not have proper documents to justify their stay in Loliondo,” explained the CGI. Eng Masauni instructed the Immigration Department to intensify border patrols with the aim to control the influx of illegal immigrants. The minister challenged immigration officers at all exit and entry points, to be extra vigilant in curbing such illegal entries into Tanzania.