MASAI pastoralists who have relocated to Msomera Village in Handeni District, Tanga Region will soon enjoy mobile phone connection and internet services after Airtel Tanzania pledged to expand communication network through its infrastructure development strategy. Speaking on the launch of the new site at Msomera village in Handeni District, Tanga Region, the Minister of Communications and Information Technology Mr Nape Nnauye commended Airtel Tanzania for its continued efforts in making Tanzanians enjoy quality seamless communication services in both urban and rural areas. “I take this opportunity to commend Airtel Tanzania for extending communication services to Msomera village. This service will not only benefit the residents of Msomera but also its neighboring areas,” he said. He added connecting Msomera with communication is connecting them to the rest of the world and I must say am pleased to learn that the Msomera site allows broadband connectivity with 3/4G technology allowing broadband services to provide access to health, education and agriculture. “As you are aware, the government has been mobilizing the Maasai community to migrate from Ngorongoro to Msomera which is located in Handeni District. The government is doing this with good intention, we have promised the Maasai community that all social services will be available here and am happy to see Airtel taking the lead to provide this essential service. We have clean water, electricity, medical services and now Airtel has launched communication services. The government will continue ensuring that the Msomera community is not left behind by ensuring all social services are available,” he added. “Airtel has been the first telecommunication service provider at Msomera village. I once again commend Airtel Tanzania. We need to ensure all our communities have access to broadband communication services, our goal still remains at 85 per cent broadband connectivity by 2025. Airtel Tanzania Managing Director Mr Dinesh Balsingh said that, Airtel Tanzania is always committed in making sure that their customers’ have the freedom to communication services and that is one of the main reason why Airtel was the first operator to provide reliable telecommunication services including Mobile Money Services to Msomera residents. “We believe broadband penetration transforms lives and plays a vital role in the way most businesses operate, as per GSMA report operators’ investment in network infrastructure over the last decade has helped shrink the coverage gap for mobile broadband networks by 41 per cent of the global population,” he said.