The  word  “voyage”,  ordinarily  means   “a long  journey  by  sea”;  in  which  the  travelers  are  likely  to  encounter  some  unexpected  problems,  that  may  be  caused  by   bad  or  rough  weather. Similarly,   in  our  30  years  of  implementing  the  multi-party  political  system,  we   too  have  encountered  certain  ‘rough weather’  problems;   and  particularly,  the  initial  “apprehensions” that  were  largely  based  on  what  is  known  as  “fear  of  the  unknown”,  primarily   because  of  the  novelty  of  the  idea  itself. In   his  inaugural  speech  to  the  first  de  jure  multi-party  Parliament  in  November  1995,   the  late  President  Benjamin  Mkapa  said  the  following   immortal  words:- “ In  making  the  transition  to  multi-party  politics,  we  were  harbouring   some   strong  doubts  and  apprehensions,  that   such  change  would  probably  lead  to  a  resurgence  of  the  divisive  tribal  and/or   religious   sentiments  among  our  people,   thereby  undermining   our  cherished  national   cohesion  and  unity   which  we  have  worked  so  hard  to  develop  and  nurture. But,  thanks  to  the  political  maturity  of  our  people,  these  fears  never  materialized”. President  Mkapa  was,  no  doubt,  referring   to  the findings  of  the  Nyalali  commission   which,   in  its  Report,  had  disclosed  that   80 per cent  of  all  the  people  who  had  expressed  their  views  and  opinions  to  that  commission   on  the  question  whether,  or  not,  our  country  should  adopt  the  multi-party  system,   had  actually  rejected   the  idea  of  re-introducing  multi-party politics  in  Tanzania.    And   this,  presumably,    had  been  influenced  by  the  apprehensions  based  on  this  “fear  of  the  unknown”. I  was  a  member   of  that  commission,  and  I  still  have   very  vivid  memories  of  those  events. The   fears regarding  Zanzibar’s  stability  under  multi-party  politics. Some  of  these  apprehensions   and  fears  were  in  relation  to   Zanzibar’s  stability   under  multi-party  politics.   It  was  genuinely   feared,   that  a  return  to  multi-party  politics  would  probably  ‘take   Zanzibar  back  to  the   undesirable    divisive  politics   which  had  bedeviled  that  country   during  the  whole  of  the   period  before  the  1964  glorious  revolution’.                                                                                                                 This  fear  was  clearly  manifested  in  the   ‘terms  of  reference’  that  were  given  to  the  Nyalali  Commission,  no. (vii)  of  which  directed  the  commission: “To  give  special  consideration  to  the  expected  impact  on  Zanzibar,  which  may  result  from  changing  the  present  political  system,  considering  its  unpleasant  electoral  history,  and  the  culture  of  the  people  of  Zanzibar”. We,  of  course,   gave  due  consideration  to  this  particular  reference;   but   we  nevertheless  recommended  that  Zanzibar  should  adopt  the  multi-party  system,  along  with  Tanzania  Mainland;  which  the  ruling  party  CCM  gracefully  accepted. Hence,  with  such  ‘fears  and  apprehensions’  dominating  the  minds  of  such  a  large  majority  of  the  people,   this  voyage  had,  inevitably,  a  pretty  difficult,  and  uneasy  start.  But,  presumably  due  to  the  “political  maturity”  of  our  people  that  was  asserted  by  President  Mkapa;   what  had  been  so  widely  feared,  never  actually  materialized. The   rough  weather  that  we  have  encountered. “Multi-party  democracy”  essentially  means  ‘electoral  democracy’;  simply  because  ‘competitive  free  elections’   are  the  vital  pillars  of  a  properly  functioning   democratic  system.   And  it  is  primarily  in  this  area  of  elections,  that  our  voyage  has  encountered  the  problems  of  “bad  weather”;  which,  in  this  context,  refers  to   the  serious  challenges  that  have  occurred  over  the  period  under  discussion. The  basic  challenge :  the  lack  of  the  multiparty  culture. Many  of  the  countries  which  inherited  the  British  Parliamentary  system,   appear  to  have  been  faced  with  a  variety  of  different   problems   upon  their  transition  to  multi-party  politics;  which  can  be  attributed  to  the  ‘lack  of  the  multi-party  culture’. Information  that  was  put  together  by   the  Commonwealth  Parliamentary  Association,  and  published  in  its  Journal   “The Parliamentarian”  in   separate  issues  during  the  years  2000,  2002,  and  2003;  reveals  the  following   negative  outcomes  regarding  the  impact  of   this  new  system   on  the  politics  of  some  of  its  member  countries ;  where  it  is  reported  therein  as  follows :- (i) Papua  New  Guinea (PNG).   “Party  politics   in  PNG  have  generally  been  based  on  personalities,  rather  than  policies,  In  this  ‘big  man’  style  of  politics,  voters  are  more  likely  to  be  won  by  family  and  clan  affiliations,  than  through  well-developed  party  policies”. (ii)  Grenada.    “The  Caribbean  people  have  long  had  a  reputation  for  passionate  partisan  debate,   in  the  adversarial  form  of  Parliamentary  democracy  inherited  from  Westminster;  and always  playing  by  the  rules,  namely,   the  winners  took  office,  and  the  losers  continued  the  debate  from  the  opposition  benches   inside  Parliament,  while  preparing  for  the  next  election.   But  today,  such  debates  are  being  continued  not  in  Parliament,  but  in  street  demonstrations.    Our acceptance   of  the  Parliamentary  system  is  being  seriously  eroded”. (iii)  Lesotho.   “Political  activity  in  Lesotho  has  been  partisan  in  form, and  exclusionary  in  character.  Society  has  been  balkanized  into new  groupings  which  call  themselves  political  parties,  dedicated  to  vying  for,  and  excluding  one  another  from,  control  of  state  power.  Political  parties  in  Lesotho  are  emerged  in  mutual  disdain  and  repugnance  that  members  of  the  different  political  parties  feel  for  each  other;   and  this  attitude  has  created  a  basis  for  political  instability  that  has  become  a  permanent  feature  of  politics  in  the  country”. (iv)  Kenya.  “The  re-introduction  of  political  pluralism  was  one  of  the  greatest  developments  in  Kenya  since  independence.  But it  now  appears  that  political  parties  have  turned  into  a  liability,  not  only  stifling  democracy,  but  also  impeding  the  transformation  of  Kenya  into  a  modern  society.  Virtually  all  political  parties  have  sacrificed   healthy  competition  and  internal  democracy,  at  the  altar  of  individual  aggrandizement”. The   specific challenges   relating   to  elections (i)   The  strategy  of  ‘crying  foul’. One  of  such  challenges , was  the  emergence  of   a  strange  feeling,  or  strategy,   among  some  of  the   political   who  participate  in  the  elections;   which  may  be  expressed  thus:-   “If  you  participate  in  an  election   you  must  win.  If  you  don’t  win,  you  have  been  cheated!”. Due  to  the  absence  of  the  requisite  political  culture,  “crying  foul”  has  become  a  fairly  common  strategy  to  be  adopted  by  the  losers  in  elections ;  which  is  then  followed  by  the  losing  party  engaging  itself  in   variety  of  acts  of  commission  and/or  omission   leading  to  breaches  of  the  peace.   But  this  is  the  surest  way  of  creating   violence;   since  the  winning  government  party  will  most  likely  respond  by  using  state  power  to  restore  peace. And  this   is  what  actually  occurred  in  Zanzibar   following  the  first  multi-party  election  of  1995;  when  the  opposition  CUF  refused  to  accept  the  results  of  the   Zanzibar  Presidential  election,  and  announced  a  policy  of  total  non-cooperation  with  the  newly  elected  government ;  and  went  on  to    engaged  themselves  in  serious  acts  of  civil  disobedience. This  forced  the  government  to  respond  by  arresting  some  of  the  CUF  leaders,  who  were   charged  with  the    offence  of  treason.   These  events  created  a  serious   political  impasse  which  lasted  for  the  whole  of  the  remaining  five-year  constitutional   leadership  period. (ii)  Unsubstantiated  election  complaints.   Such  as  the  joint  election  petition  which  was  filed  immediately  following  the  first  multi-party  general  election  of  1995.  This  petition  was  filed  by  a  combined  team of  Opposition  political  parties   that  included   NCCR-MAGEUZI;   CUF;  CHADEMA; UDP;  UMD;   TADEA;  PONA;   NLD;   and  NAREA.  It  is  cited  in  the  Tanzania  Law  Reports  as   the  case  of  Augustine  Lyatonga  Mrema  and  others  v  Attorney  General  and  others, (1996);  which  was  challenging  the  validity  of  that  election,  and  seeking  its  nullification.   The  case  was  heard  by a  panel  of  three  judges  of  the  High  Court,  who  unanimously  held  that  the  case  had  no  merit,  and  dismissed  it  with  costs. I  realize,  of  course,  that  there  were   other  genuine  election  complaints,   which  were  sustained  by  the   High  Court  (which  is  the  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  in  the  matter  of  election  petitions).   I  have  in mind  the  successful   ‘Kigoma  Urban’  constituency  by-election  petition  which  had  been  filed  by  CHADEMA,  challenging   the  winner  CCM  on  several  grounds  that  (allegedly)   constituted  a  breach  of  the  election  law,  and  the  associated  rules  and  regulations  issued  by  the  National  Electoral  Commission. (iii)   ‘Post-election  violence’.   Such  as  that which  occurred  in  January  2001,  following  the  Opposition  CUF  party’s  rejection  of  the  2000  Zanzibar  Presidential  election  results;   following  which  a  tragedy  occurred  in  Pemba,  when  CUF  organized  a   demonstration,  ostensibly  to  protest  the  results  thereof;  but  which  turned  violent,    when   the  protesters  beheaded  a  policeman  who was  on  duty  in  the  path  of  the  demonstrators,  and  then  set  off  to  attack  a  police  station,  where   the   small  police  contingent  opened   fire  on  the  demonstrators,  reportedly   causing  the  death  of  22  persons. (iv)   Other  challenges :  the  legal   deficiencies.  There  are  two  glaring  deficiencies  in  this  category,  which  have   caused   many   legitimate  complaints.  They  are  the  unreasonable   provisions  in   the  constitution,  which  outlaw  (a) any  court  action  in  cases   challenging   Union  or  Zanzibar  Presidential  election  results;  and  (b) the  participation  of  private  candidates  in  our  elections. There  must  have  been  ‘good  and  cogent’  reasons  for  including  these    provisions  at  the  material  time;   but  times  have  now   changed,  and   it  can  be   reasonably  argued,  that  such  restrictions  could  be  removed  without  causing  any  material  harm to  society. (v)  The   role  of  Parliament. The  “rules  of  competition”  of  multi-party  politics,   require  that  when  the  parliamentary   elections  are  concluded,  political  competition  transfers  directly   to  the  floor  of  Parliament;  where  such  competition  continues  to  take  place  between  “the  winners  who  took   office  occupying  the  government  benches;   and  the  losers  operating  from   the  opposition  benches;   while  preparing  for  the next  election”. The  lack  of  recognition  of  this  role  by   the  stakeholders  constitutes  another  serious  challenge.Parliament  must  be  seen  by  all   the  stakeholders  in  the  multi-part  political  dispensation,   that  it  is  indeed relevant,   and  responsive  to  their  needs. This   perhaps  needs  a  little  more  elaboration,   especially   in   the  special  circumstances  of  Tanzania,  where,  in  all   Parliamentary  elections  which  have  been  held  during  the  period  under  discussion,  (commencing  with  the  1995  first  multi-party  general  election,  when  the  ruling  party  scored  80.17%   of  the  total  number  of  parliamentary  seats),   the  Opposition  parties   have  consistently  obtained  less  than  a  third  of  the  Parliamentary  seats  available  at  the  relevant  time.     This  situation   has  led  some  detractors  to   suggest  that  our  multi-party  Parliament  “cannot  be  effective  because  it  is  so  overwhelmingly  dominated  by  MPs  of  the  ruling  party  CCM”. However,   such  assertions  are  inherently  mischievous;   because  they  overlook  the  plain  fact  that   all  election  results  are   the  tangible  expressions  of  the  wishes  of  the  electorate. I referred  above  to  the  problem  of  “unsubstantiated election  complaints”.    I had  in  mind  the  kind   of  complaints   which,  even  the  complainants  themselves  appear  to  feel  that  they  lack  merit,  and  therefore  cannot  succeed;  such  as  the  wild  assertions    that  their  votes  “were  stolen” . It  is  my  humble  submission   that  votes  cannot  be  stolen,  simply  because  the  voting   system  is   so   closely  supervised,  at  every  stage,  either  by  the   competing  candidates  themselves;  or  their  chosen  and   trusted  representatives.   Any  attempt  to  ‘steal  votes’  cannot  succeed. Our  Parliament  was  carefully  designed  to  be  effective. I  had  the  good  fortune  of  being  the  Speaker  who  supervised  our  Parliament’s   transition  to  the  multi-party   system;  and  can  remember  the  great  amount  of  efforts  that   we  invested  in  crafting  the   ‘Standing   Rules  and  Orders’  which  would properly   guide  the  operations  of  Parliament  under  the  multi-party  dispensation   in  order  to  make   it  ‘ appear  to  be’  genuinely  “efficient  and   effective”  to  all   the  stakeholders.   And,   I  sincerely  believe,  we  succeeded. piomsekwa@gmail.com   /0754767576.  