THE fall by the political wayside of Alexander Boris de Pfefell Johnson as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom momentarily took me down memory lane. I'm referring here to the time a cabinet minister had stepped down soon after another under Tony Blair, and in vintage British style, a famous 1980 song by the British rock band Queen, accompanied the story on a political programme. Following the resignations of Theresa May and now BoJo in such a short span of time, no doubt that tune could be taken a notch higher. There is really something inimitable about British politics and forced resignations. The febrile atmosphere of events can simply take your breath away. Some UK political commentators have in particular talked about how the world's oldest political machine, the Conservative Party, is ruthless when it feels a PM has become more of an electoral liability. Lady Thatcher, otherwise known as the Iron Lady, couldn't quite believe that her dream of 'going on and on' was cut short during in her third term. Nothing was more captivating than her teary eyes when being driven out of the gates of Number 10 Downing Street for the last time. It expressed the gravity of the moment. Similarly, the daughter of a vicar, Theresa May, was overcome with raw emotion when ending her resignation speech at No. 10. Turning now to Boris Johnson, a man whose sheer joie de vivre is unmatched, had only recently hinted when in Rwanda for the Commonwealth Summit that a third term was in his sights - only for his office to quickly intervene to say it was all in jest. I'll add that I did think to myself that the immensely ambitious BoJo must have been seriously considering the matter and for good reasons too, given the kind of thumping majority the Tories commanded in the House of Commons since 2019. To put this in perspective, the UK historically has what are known as 'safe' constituency seats. These are areas where the traditional political parties command electoral loyalty. They are also known as the heartlands. So you find that places like my former city of Liverpool in the old industrial regions of the North are Labour-controlled or so-called red-wall. With the arrival of Boris and his decision to call a general election only a couple of months after becoming PM, Labour found itself alarmingly losing over 54 seats to the Tories, including Blair's Sedgefield constituency. It's not easy to point to a silver bullet but the Labour candidate for Sedgefield largely laid the blame not on Brexit but on the party's Old-Labour figure called Corbyn. "Jeremy Corbyn's leadership was a bigger problem. To say otherwise is delusional." It felt like Britain's electoral map was being redrawn. For this, the scale of Johnson's mighty fall fell on an eloquent former minister under John Major called David Mellor, to capture melodically: "Shakespeare's talents or Thomas Hardy would be needed to write this tragedy. " Mellor's premise being that "for Boris to throw away an 80-seat majority was a tragedy as all he had to do was find the right people to implement the policies that he set forth and do the selling without having to sort of really work that hard..." His upshot: "I think Boris' problem is that he thinks rules are for little people and he is not a little person." One could argue that he was unlucky to be found out but had he read the powerful autobiography by Lord Heseltine, an elder statesman and former cabinet minister who resigned on principle from Margaret Thatcher's government, the cardinal message may likely have helped navigate potential pitfalls. Heseltine for the record did visit Tanzania in 1996 and met President Mkapa when back in the Major government as deputy PM. On his resignation: "But I went because I believe that what Mrs Thatcher had done was an affront to the standards of government in which I profoundly believed. You cannot allow progress by cheating and, if you ever start down that road, it will not be long before cheating and sharp practice become the norm. There has to be a line that no one should cross. And if that was the judgement that propelled me out into Downing Street on 9 January, events that were to follow more than vindicated my view." Boris' travails were compounded by the timing of simultaneous by-elections that saw his party defeated. They happened not long after having only survived a leadership vote that really portended something for the party. A former Conservative leader, Lord Micheal Howard, made it plain that "the party and more importantly the country, would be better off under new leadership." Furthermore, "members of the cabinet should very carefully consider their positions." The party chairman also quit saying "someone must take responsibility". A severely weakened Johnson did though make it over this hurdle but within no time came the damaging revelation of the disgraced deputy chief whip that had BoJo fumbling. The call by Howard for ministers to "consider their positions" was to become a reality with two cabinet ministers quitting within minutes of each other. A tidal wave of resignations followed that left Boris effectively clutching at straws. Heseltine put it that "it was an unedifying clinging to the rock". Boris would even sack an erstwhile ally called Michael Gove. He even warned the mutineers behind closed doors that they would "have to dip their hands in blood" in order to force him out. His line of defence to parliament was that: "Frankly, the job of a prime minister in difficult circumstances when you have been handed a colossal mandate is to keep going and that's what I'm going to be do." The Tories parliamentary majority was Johnson's Ace of spades. What though he had fundamentally forgotten though was that in Britain, the PM is primus inter pares, meaning first among equals in Latin. When you lose a chunk of your ministers you are then in an untenable position. The principle of collective accountability is best exemplified in Britain. I'd posit that the actions of Johnson were those of a man wishing he was operating in a presidential system such as in Tanzania where he could have easily threatened parliamentarians to go back to the electorate so that they can have the final say as after all they did give him a ringing endorsement - in spite of the by-election results that showed he was on a slippery slope. The beauty of a parliamentary system is that the main political arena is parliament. It is the nation's cockpit, so to speak. In this regard, I earnestly wish that Tanzania could revert to its old system of having a premier with executive authority. Only the day prior to his resignation, Johnson was not only facing questions from MPs on the floor of the House but later had a long session with the liaison committee heads. This is a biannual affair and was brought into being by Blair. How much more democratic scrutiny can one wish for? Whilst still on parliamentary systems, a look at the goings-on in Great Britain to elect a new leader is something which has lessons for many African countries where we see tensions galore between a president and the deputy over succession. In Britain, the position of deputy PM has no constitutional status. Indeed not all PM's have had a formal deputy. So even now with BoJo on his way out, his deputy, Dominic Raab, is not at all in the driving seat - hence the PM carries no baggage. After all is said and done, Johnson will soon become a backbencher, alongside May. That's another beauty of the parliamentary system. The question is will he be a thorn in the government's side? There is a precedent as Heseltine revealed on Thatcher: "Mrs Thatcher more than fulfilled her threat - when John Major became PM - to be a back-seat driver, with incessant leaks of her bizarre contradictions of much that she herself had done in government." It gets more interesting: "A strange collection of never-promoted, never-would-be-promoted and once-prompted-but-now-demoted backbenchers spent every waking moment on College Green outside the Palace of Westminster, feeding the airwaves of the national media with their views." As a parting shot, Johnson had a hand in making life difficult for May. There is a sense of poetic justice with his demise. Other than that, something phenomenal about Johnson was his proclivity to promote to great offices of state politicians of Asian extraction. I'm talking here of the finance, home affairs and health portfolios. Not to be left out is the AG - something I'm sure my late dad would have something to say about. To my consternation, all those leaders at Johnson's critical hour of need left him high and dry. What comes to mind here is the Kiswahili saying that shukrani ya punda ni mateke!