THE Tanzania Coffee Board (TCB) has appealed to Agricultural and Marketing Cooperative Society (AMCOS), to ensure that they acquire moisture sensors that will help to determine coffee quality. Equally, it has directed buyers to ensure that they possess a release order from TCB and a consignment note from the respective AMCOS, to avoid inconveniences while transporting the cash crop for auctions. TCB Regional Manager, Mr Edmund Zani  expressed satisfaction with the increasing number of private buyers participating in the recently-introduced online coffee trading system. “Since the government introduced the online coffee trading system a few months ago, the farmers were being paid between 1,600/-  and  3,010/-  per kilogramme of coffee while more private buyers were participating in the auctions and  pay attractive prices to the farmers,” he said. Mr  Zani  explained that  during the recent auction held on July 18th,  this year,  a  kilogram of robusta coffee was sold between 1,795/- and 1,890/- while a kilogram of Arabica as sold at 3,010/- for a kg of coffee. “The price difference depended on the quality and quantity of the coffee received from the respective AMCOS. This is a commendable step,” he said. Kaibanja AMCOS in Bukoba DC sold a total of 11,299 kilograms of robusta coffee, which was sold at 1,780/- for a kg of coffee. Ruicho AMCOS in Karagwe district sold a total of 38,223 kgs, which was sold at 1,865/- for a kg of coffee. During the same auction, Ngara Farmers’ Cooperative Society from Ngara district sold a total of 83,172 kgs of Arabica coffee, which was sold at 3,005/-   per kg. He explained that the auctions were covering AMCOS under the Kagera  Cooperative Union (KCU), Karagwe District Cooperative Union (KDCU) and Ngara Farmers’ Cooperative Society. KCU comprised about 134 AMCOS with 60,000 members. Out of the number 53 were in Muleba, 27 in Missenyi,   51 in Bukoba Rural while three others are in Bukoba Urban. KDCU on the other hand comprised of 126 AMCOS. During his recent tour in Kagera, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa explained that the government is well prepared to stage the coffee auctions in the region. He welcomed private companies   to compete and buy the coffee at auctions held at the AMCOS level instead of relying on the outdated system, whereby cooperative unions collected the crop ended up paying   low price to the farmers. Zani invited private companies to buy coffee directly from AMCOS, a move aimed to offer higher price to the farmers. He tasked the Kagera Regional Commissioners, Major General Charles Mbuge, district commissioners and district executive directors to closely supervise the exercise. Coffee is grown in Bukoba, Muleba, Karagwe, Kyerwa, Ngara and Missenyi districts in the western areas along Lake Victoria.  This constitutes about 50 per cent  of the total coffee production in Tanzania.