320 Italian tourists landed in Zanzibar last week aboard Italian airline, Neos Air flight as it resumed direct flights to the Isles after a two-year hiatus due to Covid-19 pandemic. Zanzibar suspended flights from Italy in 2020 as a protective measure against coronavirus but the government lifted the ban and flights resumed from last Wednesday. Italy, the leading country in bringing many tourists to the archipelago, was one of the countries in the world hard hit by the pandemic. The virus was reported in Italy in February 2020, killing thousands as many others contracted the deadly virus. Many countries in the world banned flights from Italy during the pandemic period. However, the world has been fighting the virus, and things seem to be going back to normal. Zanzibar Minister for Infrastructure, Communication and Transport Dr Khalid Salum Mohamed led government officials and others to welcome the Neos plane from Italy, which landed at Abeid Amani Karume Airport with 320 tourists onboard at around 7.30am (East African time). “We should be happy to see international flights bringing in tourists. Let us improve services at the airports, seaports and hotels, to attract more tourists,” Dr Mohammed. He said the Neos plane is scheduled to make four flights a week that will be coming from Italy directly to Zanzibar. The number of tourists had hit 600,000 arrivals before the pandemic, but then fell to less than half the number. “We hope the resumption of flights will boost the number back to normal and soon will surpass 600,000. We should reduce or eliminate bureaucracy in issuing visas and other permits,” the minister said. He also emphasized on the government's commitment to provide better services to tourists. “When visitors come, they must get the best services, which must start from the airports,” he said. Tanzania's Ambassador to Italy Mr Mahmoud Thabit Kombo also urged executives in various institutions to eliminate excessive bureaucracy in order to allow development activities to take place. He also said he was happy to improve good relationships with the tourist countries as the influx of tourists into Tanzania will help significantly increase the country's income.