MINISTER for Health Ummy Mwalimu has joined Bongo Fleva artists; Harmonize, Marioo, Sholo Mwamba, Balaa Mcee, Sarafina, Mimi Mars, and Mzee Bwax in public education, awareness that encourages the public in Mtwara to be vaccinated against the COVID-19. The Minister joined the megastars during an event held at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara over the weekend. It was organized by the Ministry of Health through the Public Education Department in partnership with FHI 360 through EpiC project funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). ‘The country’s goal is to vaccinate 70 per cent of its citizens by the end of 2022. As per Mtwara Region, the data that we have is that by 10 July this year, 29.3 per cent of the population had already been vaccinated. We are very grateful to the government under President Samia Suluhu Hassan for the decision to protect Tanzanians against COVID-19 and other diseases,” said the Health Minister. The Minister added that the Ministry of Health through the Public Education Department in collaboration with partner FHI 360, is using different events like music concerts to increase awareness of getting vaccinated and our slogan today is ‘Bega kwa Bega, Ujanja Kujanja’ “Though this campaign, we encourage completion of doses, get registered and get a certificate after getting vaccinated so that together we can achieve our country’s goal. I take this opportunity to commend all the regional government leaders who have come to take part in this campaign and I call to continue sensitizing and encouraging our people on use of these vaccines. I would also commend the FHI 360 and USAID for organizing and funding this event,” she said. In making that other stakeholders are backing and supporting the country in making sure that the country attains its goal of vaccinating of 70 per cent of the population by the end of 2022, FHI 360 Chief Waziri Nyoni said, ‘COVID-19 vaccination is one of agenda which we have been taking so keenly after being launched by President Samia Suluhu Hassan in July 2021. “ As a result of efforts being taken by the government in partnership with stakeholders, the corona epidemic in the country has gone down tremendously. This ongoing campaign is expected to continue in other five regions of Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Njombe and Iringa.” EpiC is a five-year international project implemented by the FHI 360 organization with funding from the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).