DODOMA Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Anthony Mtaka, has issued a 60-day ultimatum to Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agenc (RUWASA) to complete and hand over to the government the 1.7bn/- water project. He issued the ultimatum to RUWASA Mpwapwa District Manager, Engineer Cyprian Warioba. The abrupt decision came following the working visit in the district by the RC on Monday, after learning that the water project at Mtera village had stalled for three years. Mr Mtaka visited the area after Mtera villagers forwarded their complaints to the RC Office that they were lacking access to clean and safe water, despite having a project that was dilly-dallying for many years. Issuing the directive after inspecting the project that is currently at 75 per cent of its implementation, Mr Mtaka asked the area residents to collaborate with Eng Warioba to ensure that the project was completed within the two months that were issued by the former. Mr Mtaka held a meeting with villagers for at least five hours where the majority of them complained of lack of access to the precious liquid. “I am issue two months beginning today (Monday) to RUWASA Manager in Mpwapwa district to ensure that this crucial project is completed and I will be here again in September 25 in the company of the Defence and Security Regional Committee and CCM leaders to hand over the completed project to people,’’ he insisted. The RC added that on the same day, his delegation will hold a special meeting with villagers there to ensure that the directives provided by leaders are fully implemented. He further tasked the district manager to install prepaid meters immediately after completion of the project in order to avoid unnecessary collisions amongst people residing in Mtera village. Speaking at a similar occasion, Dodoma Regional Administrative Secretary, Dr Fatuma Mganga insisted that in order to have timely completion of the project, there is a need to form different committees to supervise the project. She named the committees as the finance committee, the procurement committee, the equipment committee and the team to receive the equipment. “These committees will involve people from this place and your leaders and I want those who will have an opportunity to be engaged in these committees to think of the taxpayers money and make sure that there are joint decisions on whatever is done,’’ she insisted. According to RUWASA’s District Manager, so far, the project implementation had reached 75 per cent and that it was expected to be completed in April last year according to contract documents. Eng Warioba named some of the reasons that delayed the project as financial hiccups, adding that so far until Monday the government had disbursed 700m/- out of the total budget for the project that is 1.7bn/-.