HAFSA Khalid Omar is motivated to vie and win a seat in the Parliament in the coming general elections. She has started preparation to contest in the 2025 election, to enable her, if elected, to bring changes in the relatively conserved society of Zanzibar. Ms Omar is among more than 4,000 Women who have been taught on how to actively take part in elections as contestants, thanks to the Norwegian Embassy in Dar es Salaam for funding a four-year project dubbed ‘Strengthen WomenIn Leadership (SWIL) in Zanzibar. The project, which is being implemented by Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA)-Zanzibar in collaboration with the Zanzibar Female Lawyers Association (ZAFELA), and Pemba Environment, Gender, and Advocacy Organization (PEGAO) aims at educating and encouraging many women to contest and challenge men in elections to narrow the gender disparity. “It is fortunate that the training we have received has motivated us (women) to engage in politics. It is a timely training when Mama Samia (Suluhu Hassan) is the President, because we see Mama as a role model, inspiring and motivating us to vie for leadership posts,” she says. She argues that women politicians tend to be better leaders, as they prioritize issues that women care about, such as health, education, entrepreneurship, and also fight to decrease gender biases. The Norwegian Embassy in Dar es Salaam has already expressed satisfaction with the great achievements seen due to implementation of the SWIL project to promote women’s participation in leadership in Zanzibar. According to TAMWAZanzibar Director, Dr Mzuri Issa, the project has so far reached 6,917 citizens in Unguja and Pemba, out of which 4,797 women and 2,120 men. The number of men is small because the target is to encourage more women into politics. Women rights and gender activists have commended the project funder – Norway Embassy in Dar es Salaam as it is making admirable impact on women, driving them to get into politics and bring changes in the society. Ms Jamila Mahmoud Juma – the ZAFELA Director says the project, which started in 2020 is expected to bring changes in the future elections, as many women after training, will contest for political positions. “We ask leaders in political parties to ensure that competing environment is levelled, so that women do not have any barrier to contest. Legal framework and policy should allow women to contest along with change of mindset among men who are still with patriarchy minds,” Ms Juma said. She says that ZAFELA identified gaps in some laws that hinder women in leadership, such as law governing education, election, political parties, public service, and ‘Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act’ that need reform to accommodate more women in leadership. Ms Juma pointed out that through SWIL project more female participants are encouraged to fight for and grab more leadership positions in the coming years. “The objective is to have a fair representation of women within corporations, politics, professions, religious organizations, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), Media and even in sports, among other fields,” she says. The ZAFELA director argues further that following the ongoing awareness, many women would be capable to hold various positions in society, and that the strategies to overcome the barriers to women in leadership include capacity building of at least 60 NGOs that will in turn advocate for women to take part in politics and leadership without fear. Other ways being used to educate and motivate women are to organize forums on public awareness on the importance of women in leadership and decision-making bodies, as it also reflects the United Nations (UN) agenda of ‘leaving no one behind.’ The Norwegian delegation led by Minister-Counsellor, Mr Bjørn Midthun, Deputy Chief of Mission at the Royal Norwegian Embassy – Dar Es Salaam was also in Zanzibar to find out about the progress of the project, from TAMWAZanzibar offices in Tunguu area, Unguja Central District, where they were briefed on how the project has been executed. After the briefing and testimonies from some of the beneficiaries, the Norwegian team expressed his happiness about the development so far as more women are getting motivated to run for office and win various leadership positions, ranging from political parties and civil society organizations. Mr Midthun was convinced that the ongoing changes as regards women political participation is attributed to efforts through the project. Mr Midthun also recognized the contribution of the specialized young people who have been trained as Community Brigades (CBs) have done a great job of mobilizing the community while increasing the accountability of leaders. The SWIL project is undertaken in all 11 districts of Zanzibar, seven districts in Unguja and four districts in Pemba. The districts include Unguja South, North, Urban, West A and West B and Pemba, Wete, Micheweni, Mkoani and Chakechake. Target groups include individual and women groups, grass root networks and community-based organizations in Zanzibar that directly or indirectly contribute to the participation of women in democratic processes and decision making at the local or national level. They are being empowered on women’s rights to political and democratic engagement and being supported to undertake various interventions towards mobilizing women from the grass root to national level towards participation in democratic and political process The ambassador says that he is happy to learn that all the gains made over the past two years of implementation of the project have also been successful because of the power of the media, which helps to raise the voices of people. TAMWA-Zanzibar Director Dr Mzuri Issa Ali informed the guests from Norway Embassy in Dar es Salaam that: “We express our sincere gratitude to all the journalists who continue to work with us on this project. The media has done a great job in coverage and raising awareness.” She also praised the ongoing good relations between TAMWA-Zanzibar, co-implementers, and the Norwegian Embassy in Tanzania in implementing the project and pledged to continue reaching out to many more women to vie for political positions. “The success comes from close cooperation from the Embassy and we foresee great achievements in having an increased number of female leaders in all decision-making bodies,” she said, adding that the SWIL project is expected to increase participation of women in democratic processes and leadership at all levels of the society so that women will be regarded as active and vibrant actors in leadership processes. The project also intends to build the capacity of at least six thousand women equal to one hundred CSOs and will eventually reach out to the wider community. The CSOs will in turn pass the messages to community members through dialogues and linkages Other objectives include to engage and documen at least 400 key actors, including Ministerial Development Agencies (MDAs) such as Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) and political parties in promotion and protection of women’s democratic and political rights. To empower media and journalists from mainstream, community and social media and successfully write more analytical stories on the democratic process and women leadership; and to strengthen M&E system to facilitate tracking of women leadership and political rights.