PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has joined other top African leaders in mourning the death of former President of Angola Jose Eduardo dos Santos. Angola's second president who ruled the mineral-rich state for almost four decades died at the age of 79 in Spain at Barcelona Clinic where he was being treated after suffering a cardiac arrest. In her message through her twitter account, President Samia said she was greatly saddened by the tragic death of former President Eduardo dos Santos. “It is with great sadness that we learned of the passing away of the former Angola President José Eduardo dos Santos. We have lost a brother, an African liberation fighter and peacemaker” President Samia posted on her official Twitter page Reacting to the news, Namibian President Hage Geingob sent a message of condolence to Angola, saying it was a dark day for the African continent, describing dos Santos as an exceptional political icon, African hero and an admirable statesman. He added "as we remember this great African luminary, we celebrate his rich legacy of loyal service to the people of Angola." "Namibia owes a great debt of gratitude to former president dos Santos and the Angolan people. Indeed, there is no doubt that his legacy will remain immortalised in the hearts and minds of current and successive generations of Namibians to come," said Geingob. The former Angola president will be remembered for his immense contribution to the liberation of Namibia as Angola was home to the ruling party SWAPO cadres and countless Namibians during the fight against colonialism. President of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa offered his deepest condolences to the people and government of the Republic of Angola on the passing of its former President. “I offer, on behalf of our government, our sincerest condolences to the Republic of Angola on the passing of an outstanding revolutionary and leader of a nation.” President Ramaphosa said “Indeed, José Eduardo dos Santos and the MPLA (Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola) he came to lead extended their revolutionary solidarity and material and military support to our liberation movement,” the statement read in part. President dos Santos was born on 28 August 1942 to a modest family and grew up in the "barrio" or neighbourhood of Sambizanga and joined the MPLA in 1961 but only briefly joined the armed struggle. Two years later, he obtained a scholarship to study in Azerbaijan where he obtained an engineering degree and married a Soviet woman, Tatiana Kukanova. In the 1970s, he continued his political rise by joining the MPLA Central Committee. He was the successor to the first Angolan president, Agostinho Neto, and became his chief diplomat upon independence in 1975. When Neto died in 1979, he was invested as head of state by the party, of which he became president. The historical ties between Tanzania and Angola can be traced back in 19century whereby Tanzania by then Tanganyika used to be a unifying force during the Southern African Liberation Movement and offered a base for liberation fighters, hosting the forces of many movements, including Angola soldiers.