AFTER heated debate on the Zanzibar Government’s ongoing programme to lease small islands to potential investors, Members of the House of Representatives endorsed 19.7bn/- budget estimates for the 2022/23 fiscal year for the Ministry of State, President’s office- Labour, Economy and Investments. As backbenchers discussed the budget, Mr Hajji Omar Kheri and Mr Suleiman Makame Ali (Ziwani) led their colleagues to demand for more explanation. After seeking budget approval from the legislators, State Minister, President’s office- Labour, Economy and Investment, Mr Mudrik Ramadhan Soraga, said the leasing of small Islands has been going on well with many foreign investors showing interest. Already, nine out of the twenty small islands for lease have been taken by investors to establish huge investment projects while the government continues to attract more investors for the remaining other small islands. However, this sparked heated debate from some backbenchers led by Mr Kheri, a legislator from Tumbatu constituency who is also former Minister for Regional Administration. President Hussein Ali Mwinyi Zanzibar and other authorities have repeatedly invited serious international and local investors to invest in the ‘unutilised small Islands,’ to create jobs and income to the country through rent and taxes. During the debate in the House, Mr Kheri, a long serving legislator demanded further explanation on the lease programme, claiming that people had not been consulted and educated about the move. But the three Ministers: including Minister for Education and Vocational Training Ms Lela Mohamed Mussa (former tourism Minister and who started the lease programme); and State Minister Second Vice-President’s Office (Policy, Coordination and House of Representatives) Mr Hamza Hassan Juma, stood to clarify the lease programme. “Misleading information should be ignored, people were involved and gave their views before start of the lease programme,” Mr Juma said. Ms Mussa informed the House that the lease programme idea started in 2009 followed by a study in 2010 by a team of local experts (environmentalists, security officers, and land) formed by the then government. The experts completed the study and gave recommendations on how to use or invest on the 55 small Islands of Zanzibar. “Actually what the eight phase government is doing is just implementing what was recommended by experts in their report. People will not be stopped from using some of the Islands for their spiritual practices since some tourists only come to see that!” Ms Mussa said, causing laughter. Other Islands are Misali given to East African Investment- Mauritius Limited (USD $83 million); Pamunda-A allocated to Tulia Zanzibar Beach Resort Limited (USD $15 million); Pamunda-B Tulia Zanzibar Beach Resort Limited (USD $15 million); and Pungumbe leased to Imperial East Africa Limited (USD $10.5 million), while Chumbe Island continue to be under the Chumbe Island Coral Park. He said Zanzibar will get more than 12 million US dollars from Lease Acquisition Cost (LAC) as he mentioned the size of leased small islands: Miwi (36.82 hectares), Popo (45 hectares), Sume (3.52 hectares) and Kwata (6.73 hectares) all in Unguja South region for rent