THE government has assured investors from the United Kingdom and Norway of a more improved business and investment climate to facilitate their investment in the country. The government also welcomed the investors to participate into building the country infrastructure under model including Public Private Partnership (PPP) and Build Own Transfer (BOT). The Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, assured prospective investors, that the government would continue to make improvements in investment policies to make them more reliable, attractive and predictable. “The peace and security, the availability of land for investment, the presence of a large number of consumers including the domestic and the regional market are another opportunity that will warrant you to profit from your investments,” Dr Nchemba said when held talks with a group of investors from the UK and Norway in Dar es Salaam. The investors are looking to invest in agricultural, energy, mining and processing sectors, energy, mining and minerals processing and the construction of various infrastructures. The coming of the group was the outcome of President Samia Suluhu Hassan recent visits to Europe and Middle East. The chairman of the investors, Mr Lanre Akinola, said that in the next few years, Tanzania is predicted to have strong economy due to conducive and friendly environment for business and investment. Meanwhile the Minister for Works and Transport, Prof Makame Mbarawa invited the 37 investors to invest in road and railway infrastructures. Prof Mbarawa said Tanzania needs investment flows to build the infrastructure in order to open up the country and bolster investment and business. “The government will particularly cooperate with investors in implementing big projects in building strategic infrastructure projects in order to open up the country and generate jobs,” he said. The European business delegation was jointly coordinated by the Norwegian-African Business Association (NABA), Invest Africa Company and the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC). The TIC Executive Director, Dr Maduhu Kazi, assured the guests of unflinching cooperation to businessmen and investors. “I assure you the government has put in place an environment that is very friendly to investment,” Mr Kazi said. The NABA CEO, Mr Eivind Fjeldstad, said the delegates chose to visit the country in order to see and get firsthand information regarding available investment opportunities. “This is very good opportunity for us to visit a country with many investment opportunities,” he said