BRAVE Tanzanian girls are just one step closer to their World Cup arena and this time are Serengeti Girls dictating the term. Their quest to qualify for the 2022 FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup is undoubtedly within reach. The envoys have one fixture to settle against Cameroon before making it to India, the venue of the finals and every Tanzanian is aware that the brave girls can make it this time. We are proud that they are among six Africa teams vying for three final slots and that bears testimony that the country’s women football is heading towards a bright future. Other teams chasing for the qualifications are Ethiopia who have a game against Nigeria and Ghana who will face Morocco in other tense qualifying matches. All the six teams have got what it takes to land in India for the finals but because of the three available spaces, they need to fight hard in all 180 minutes to qualify. For Serengeti Girls, it is admirable to note that the government has pledged full support for them to enable them to prepare thoroughly before facing the Cameroonians. Anywhere in this world, the secret to success in a game is having adequate drills while other things are there as additions. As such having been promised by the government to stand by their side, it is a good gesture. The team had a remarkable success against Burundi, whom they beat 5-2 and prior to that pulverised Botswana 11-0 aggregate win. They did well in both home and away fixtures. In most cases, the girls attribute their success to hard work and confidence which made them approach matches with a winning spirit. But, another thrilling record which gives Tanzanians confidence that Serengeti Girls are making it all the way to India is the fact that they have been producing superb results in most of their away games, unlike with home games. In terms of shaking opponent nets, Serengeti Girls are too bright here. Their key striker, Clara Luvanga, is leading the 2022 FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup scoring chart for Africa qualifiers with seven goals. She has therefore over shadowed Yasmine Zouhir of Morocco and Opeyemi Ajakaye from Nigeria who have each scored five goals so far in the competition to help their teams reach into the last pair of qualifying games. Also, Tanzanian Neema Paul and Djennah Cherif of Morocco are present on the scoreboard after netting four goals apiece to enable their flag carrier sides move ahead into the competition. With three goals are Aisha Juma (Tanzania), Omowunmi Bello (Nigeria), Doha El Madani (Morocco), Fatoumata Samoura (Guinea), Georgina Aoyem (Ghana) and Camila Daha (Cameroon). Serengeti Girls Head Coach Bakari Shime is confident that his charges will win against Cameroon to progress into the finals for the first time in the country’s history. The government has already maintained that all necessary resources will be provided for the envoys to fulfill their target of reaching the Under-17 women’s world cup finals in India. However, in order to be 100 per cent sure that these girls can do a remarkable job, it is necessary for the government and other stakeholders to join forces and ensure they get necessary resources in and outside the pitch. Also, players should be well prepared psychologically and instill in them a confidence spirit so that they can approach the final game with heads up and produce what all Tanzanians are looking up to. For ordinary Tanzanians, they should turn up in big numbers when the girls will be hosting Cameroon to give them the required home-backing which will go a long way to add momentum for the team to do better. Reaching India for 2022 FIFA Women’s World Cup finals is a mission possible for Serengeti Girls.