FORMER Hai District Commissioner, Lengai Ole Sabaya will be a happy man this weekend after the Arusha High Court acquitted him and his two other colleagues, citing flaws in the case proceedings. The trio were in October last year handed a 30-year jail term for armed robbery. They would however appeal the ruling that was delivered by Senior Resident Magistrate Odira Amworo. But yesterday, Musoma High Court in Charge, Sedekia Kisanya told a jam-packed court that the witnesses weren’t thoroughly cross-examined during the course of the case which had attracted the country’s attention. This was tantamount to infringing the rights of the accused, Judge Kisanya held. In the ruling which lasted for two hours, Judge Kisanya cited irregularities in the cross examination of both the second and third state witnesses, a move he said was against the law. He further held that the attorneys failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused made away with a considerable amount of cash from the shop of a popular businessman in town. The former DC and his co-accused are alleged to have committed an armed robbery on February 9, last year, at a shop belonging to Mohamed Saad in Bondeni, Arusha. Reacting to the judgment, State Attorney Felix Kwetukia was at a loss, saying he was waiting for copies of the ruling to make an informed decision. Delivering the ruling last year, Senior Resident Magistrate Amworo said the court was satisfied that the prosecution had proved armed robbery charges against the former District Commissioner and his co accused. Sabaya alongside Sylvester Nyegu and Daniel Mbura completed their defence on August 24, last year after prosecution had presented 11 witnesses and eight exhibits. The former DC and Nyengu will however continue cooling their heels in custody due to economic sabotage case facing them, while Mbura left the court a freeman. The trial’s judgment has been slated for May 31 this year. In June 2021, Sabaya appeared before the Arusha Resident Magistrate’s Court charged with six counts. The charges include leading a criminal gang, armed robbery, economic sabotage, money laundering and corruption. The Court further heard that the former DC had on January 20 last year solicited 90m/- worth of bribe from an Arusha based businessman, Francis Evarist Mroso to shield him from tax evasion trial. On separate occasions, the trio had on February 9, roughed up Sombetini Ward councillor Bakari Msangi, held him at gunpoint and extorted 390,000/- from him.