THE production of the TV series, The Royal Tour has brought up a number of discussions online and to some extent it revives the urge to promote and develop the film industry to the desired levels. The purpose of this article is to trigger serious discussions about the state of the film industry and potential policy and industry decisions that can be taken to make a change to the industry for the future. The discussions aim to support viewing the conditions of the production, promotion and distribution of the new film Vuta N’Kuvute by Amil Shivji as a game changer in the country’s film industry. The film has already its commercial premiere in the country and this is an important moment to continue with our rethinking about Tanzanian cinema. Sometimes we need to “take the bull by the horns,” as it were, especially where conditions present themselves and need to be taken at face value. This is the situation we have in Tanzania today. There has also been a rapid growth in the number of cinemas in Nigeria because, in 2019 the Nigerian federal government, through the central bank, became directly involved in developing cinemas by introducing a loan scheme to support the production and theatrical exhibition of feature films. Kunle Afolayan explains it thus: “You can get a loan to build a cinema, or to make a film, and the interest rate is a quarter of what you get in commercial banks. And, the flexibility is better. You can pay within 10 years. No commercial bank would ever give you that. Also, the Lagos State Government just commissioned six theatres that would double our cinema and four of them have been completed. This will also help the monetisation of content.” As a result of this attention to feature film production and theatrical exhibition there has been a growth of films made to international theatrical standards and cinemas to screen them in. More important these have been driven forward by movie producers like Netflix or Multichoice, businesses that are also eyeing Tanzania for its local Swahili audience. Binti is only our latest example but there have been others before her! Currently Nigerian filmmakers are making higher quality content for their audiences and reaching global screens. In most cases, the people investing into these kinds of projects are independent producers or groups of investors. The link between production and exhibition, as previously seen in the DVD market, is replicated in feature film production and theatrical exhibition. Globally theatrical releases have been losing money because normally it is the secondary markets that bring the significant return and profit. With Azam Media, DSTV, Startimes VOD platforms these media companies could be made to pay premium rates for access and production of local films and through them encourage audiences in their platforms to watch Tanzanian content online anywhere in the world and supporting local filmmaking talent. The Swahili market in East Africa has an eye towards Tanzania for films but they need a bumped up marketing programme to ensure that audiences are engaged with continuously. If there is something we need to do in the industry is to have greater promotion of the Swahili film product in the region. Indeed the Internet in Tanzania is still too weak and expensive to guarantee access to streaming platforms therefore other creative methods linked to the Online sales points can also be discussed, developed and tried to see the impact they may have on the industry. We need to study other developing nations’ cinema trends and policies at close range to see how we can build our film industry, and not depend on what we read and learn from the grapevine. Examples abound but those of Nigeria and Korea provide very accessible and clear illustrations. South Korea film production has increased over the last 10 years. While producing only a handful in the 1990s it now produces over 250 films per annum. The key to their productions has been low cost and incentives. Of course the advantage that Korea has is that they are a thriving economy. Their people have financial means to attend films. We do not. We need to create different conditions to attract our people into cinemas. Only if they attend would the movie industry grow. If back in the 1970s and 80s in Tanzania, the price of a ticket of a dollar was able to make film businesses thrive then it must also be possible today to create conditions for people to view films for less than 2 dollars. The middle class has grown in Tanzania and their desire for conspicuous consumption is growing. However they still can’t afford the 12,000/- to  15000/- fee to watch a movie. The move away from DVD and CD distribution is permanent. Currently the TV screen has lured audiences from cinemas and since cinemas are so far away from their suburbs people are not attracted to travel to multiplexes to watch films. Cinemas need to be smaller and within the suburbs. It is time we have a discussion with our cinema owners and see how best we can encourage people to attend film shows. It would be a win-win situation but there must be give and take conditions for that to happen. Nigerians have instituted a bank loan system to encourage the construction of cinemas. Long term loans payable in 10-15 years with low interest rates. Here we need to see how best we can leverage such loans and encourage industry as well as cultural actors to build manageable cinema entities. In the meantime a national drive to support screening of Tanzanian films of worth can be instituted. We can learn from the three or four films that have opened in Tanzania in the last few years. These include Nyara and Binti (in 2020-21 as well as T-Junction in 2018). Now we have Vuta N’Kuvute. Expecting much controversy here I believe we need to institute financial production incentives for producers of large-budget films. Production incentives are benefits offered by countries to film productions to entice them to produce a significant portion of their project in the country. Only films of above 1,000,000/- US Dollars  should be regarded as big budget films in Tanzania. These would naturally also entice co-productions. In Australia, in the 1970-80s the government imposed a 110 per cent tax rebate. That meant that an Australian taxpayer could invest in the film industry and at the end of the year be reimbursed for all the money they invested in the tax he would pay for that year plus 10 per cent! This major incentive enabled Australia to develop their film technicians to such a high level for employment in various film industries around the world, and even major films to be made there. In that way, and in just a short time, the Australian film industry was able to grow from producing less than 20 films per year, to over 50 per year in the 1980s. We should look towards establishing co-production agreements with African countries as we institute those with the West or East. Production environments need to be relaxed to entice investment. Being time-limited the incentives are easily calculated as to their financial or social beneficiation. Unlike incentives for a factory or hotel construction where the investor has to stay on for many years to see returns, films are a 1 to 3 years affair at most and just the spend in the country of production is easily discernible. The situation of Vuta NKuvute is a welcoming, where the government can use the environment to institute incentives to entice other producers to the industry. Government could encourage corporate support through promotional activities that help to get the film reach wider audiences in the country and East Africa. Indeed marketing and merchandising activities supported through govt policies could leverage more high level productions in the country. The government should encourage the production of big budget movies, productions that employ a minimum of 30 crew members and 100 cast members for production of not less than 4 weeks. These incentives can also include tax incentives in the form of tax credits to local tax payers who wish to invest in films. (Tax credits are basically proof one can use against tax money one owes to the state.) Tax incentives can be as simple as when government allows productions to film at state-owned locations free of charge. The national parks are a clear example. The current fees levied by TANAPA are a disincentive to production. Likewise the creation of production infrastructure to support increased access to services are important incentives that do not cost the government money but actually support the government’s drive towards employment of the youth and training requirements. Support in the use of police or army services, uniforms, props can be streamlined through infrastructure support to enable smooth relations with film producers as well as potential earnings for service providers like the Police. The national bodies can facilitate the marketisation of popular culture more through economic rather than cultural policies in order to grow cultural product as commodities, not so much as a policy to preserve or promote a national culture but to take advantage of the economic potential of the film industry. The Korean examples show that a government operating in the service of corporate interest can inadvertently bolster cultural identity and diversity, and in that way enhancing the quota system will mean that the intervention of big business and government was for developing a strong base for talent growth, opportunities to make films and to develop skills and creativity. For the Vuta N’kuvute context the following measures could be taken: -Give the film national prestige through acknowledging its First at tiff status Support its promotion in the country by inviting corporate attachment to its promotion -Use it for beginning a proactive government policy & strong audience support for local films in cinemas -Show that the role of the government is to support corporate culture in film. Indeed government intervention in the film industry should not just be about subsidies for film production and they call rather for government to foster the business environment. -More important government intervention should not lead to restrictions and controls on film production and content. -While for the next few weeks the Royal Tour will capture our attention, I wish to make sure that we do not lose sight of the bigger picture in the Tanzania cinema- the need for policy and commercial rethink about our industry, which has great potential given the growth of the Swahili speaking world.