The Norwegian Embassy in Tanzania has launched the report it has commissioned on the Clean Energy Transition in Tanzania at an event held in Dar es Salaam on Friday. With the theme “Powering Sustainable Development”, the report, which was produced in consultation with the Tanzania Ministry of Energy, aims to provide ways of achieving universal access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy services by 2030 in Tanzania. The report also shows ways of increasing the supply of electricity to fuel economic growth and improve livelihoods while avoiding a lock-in to polluting fossil fuels by 2050. On behalf of the Minister of Energy, Mr January Makamba, speaking during the launch event, The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy, Eng. Felchesmi Mramba said, “The government recognizes the importance of the energy sector in the country and we have set broad goals to work with various stakeholders. Given the critical role of the energy sector in driving the development of the other sectors of the economy, it is important that our collaboration the private sector in developing the energy sector is strengthened by various appropriate actions taking place on the ground”. Tanzania has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 – 35 per cent by 2030. To deliver this climate change ambition, the energy sector has been identified as a priority sector for decarbonization. This will be done by promoting climate resilient energy systems. Exploring options for energy diversification, and promoting climate-smart rural electrification. Tanzania and Norway have a long history of energy cooperation. This cooperation of more than 50 years is broad and has ranged from hydro power development to rural electrification, productive use of energy, and support to female engineers. Speaking about the report, the Norwegian Ambassador to Tanzania, Elisabeth Jacobsen emphasized the urgent need to accelerate the shift to sustainable energy options, namely energy efficiency and renewable energy and added: “Let us power sustainable development with clean and inclusive energy”. Simultaneously, this week the Norwegian Embassy to Tanzania is hosting a delegation from the Norwegian-African Business Association (NABA) that is on a 4-day visit in the country. The visit has presented the group of Norwegian and African businesses with the opportunity to connect with key political stakeholders and leading local businesses, thus gaining insights into doing business in Tanzania as well as developing networks and relationships. While in the country, the NABA delegation has held roundtable talks with the Minister of Finance and Planning, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Works, Transport and Communications as well as the Permanent Secretary for Energy and Deputy Permanent Secretary for Investment. They also met with representatives from the Government of Zanzibar.