AS Tanzania joins the rest of the world to mark the World Environment Day on June 5th, 2022, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa is expected to launch the National Robust Plan for Environmental Management and Conservation. The plan will highlight key challenges in the environment sector and propose immediate solutions. Speaking at a news conference in Dodoma on Friday  Minister of State in the Vice-President's Office (Union and Environment), Dr Selemani Jafo expressed optimism that the much envisaged plan was an important tool in giving guidelines in preparation and implementation of different environmental conservation programmes. "The plan has highlighted key challenges beginning from the local authorities level, as well as environmental ecological systems in the country and it has proposed crucial solutions on how best the challenges can be overcome at all levels," noted the minister. The World Environment Day 2022 is the biggest international day for the environment. Led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and held annually since 1972, it has grown to be the largest global platform for environmental outreach. It is celebrated by millions of people across the world. This year's World Environment Day will be hosted in the Swedish capital, Stockholm, under the theme: "Only One Earth" which is the campaign slogan, with the focus on "Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature". The 2022 theme also focuses on the need to live sustainably in harmony with nature, and possibilities for shifting to a greener lifestyle through both policies and individual choices. "Only One Earth" was the motto for the 1972 Stockholm Conference which proposed the marking of the crucial day. Dr Jafo said that at the national level, the day would be marked in Dodoma and graced by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Vice-President, Dr Philip Mpango, adding that there would be a series of activities beginning today by planting trees at the Iyumbu area in the outskirts of the Dodoma City. The theme at the national level, according to Dr Jafo, is 'Tanzania is one, let's preserve environment.' The theme according to him seeks to create awareness to all Tanzanians in general to preserve environment so as to place the country at the safer place for the current and future generation. He added that on June 1 there will be yet another big planting tree event which would involve all environment stakeholders including Development Partners at the popular Dodoma's Magufuli city, in efforts to make the city which accommodates all ministries and other offices of the country green. "Also the celebrations will be decorated by various national environmental exhibitions which will be showcased by different stakeholders," added Dr Jafo.