THE Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) has issued a 30-day notice to more than 5,000 owners of registered companies in the country to prove the activeness of their firms. According to a notice that was issued on Friday by Brela Registrar of Companies, Mr Godfrey Nyaisa, the owners of the companies are required to prove that their firms are still carrying on with business otherwise will be axed from the list. A total of 5,284 companies appeared in the list issued by the Registrar of Companies, saying if owners do not prove their activeness in business within 30 days they will be removed from BRELA’s register. “Failure to comply with this notice, the Registrar shall strike the names of the companies off the register in accordance with section 400(3) of the Companies Act, cap. 212” the notice read in part. The Registrar of Companies said Brela was prompted to issue the notice since the Agency is in the process of updating companies’ information and records in the Online Registration System (ORS). “To accomplish this exercise, the Registrar of Companies has decided to invoke the powers granted to him under section 400 of the Companies Act, Cap. 212 by striking off defunct companies from the Register of Companies,” the statement read. In a related development, the Registrar said the companies whose owners that have failed to file Annual Returns in accordance with section 128 of the Companies Act, Cap. 212 shall be deemed to be defunct companies. Brela was established under the Government Agencies Act No. 30 of 1997 and officially launched on 3 December 1999 under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The responsibilities of the BRELA are set out in the establishment order No. 38 of the government Proclamation Number 294 of 1999 under the Act which created government Agencies No. 30 of 1997. Meanwhile, MEHTA and Associates has reminded all incorporated or registered companies in Tanzania under the companies Act to submit to the Registrar of Companies, particulars of their beneficial owners not later than 30th June 2022. The firm insisted that failure to submit the particulars  would invite a penalty amounting to 1Om/- MEHTA and Associates was established in 2013 and is a member of the Tanzania National Board of Accountants and Auditors. The firm is registered in Tanzania under the Auditors and Accountant (Registration) Act, 1972 (as amended in 1995) with registration number PF 271.