SIMBA have admitted that they are playing under pressure after go- ing through a winless run in three consecutive NBC Premier League matches but have vowed to bounce back stronger. The defending champions were held to a 2-2 draw by Namungo at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi on Tuesday an outcome which practically hampered their quest to defend the league title for the fifth time in a row. The Msimbazi Street Reds had to come from behind twice to make the scoreboard read 2-2 at the elapse of 90 minutes of play thanks to contributions from Shomari Kapombe and Kibu Denis while Jacob Masawe and substitute Obrey Chirwa scored for the hosts. Prior to that, Simba shared spoils with Young Africans (0-0) in a tra- ditional derby encounter which preceded another barren draw with Polisi Tanzania at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi thereby bagging three points from targeted nine points. "Yes, we are playing under pres- sure especially after going three games without a win but I am sure that the technical bench has spotted the problem and we are set to improve in our upcoming games," said Simba's full-back Kapombe after the game. He added: "As players, we will continue to push for victories in our next fixtures because we are obliged to do that until the end of the season. The current existing gap with Yanga has not demoralised our intention to do well in the coming encounters." On his part, Namungo Assistant Coach Jamhuri Kihwelo hailed his charges for the great performance while questioning efficiency of the referee alleging him that he was not fair and deprived them a win. "According to the way we played, we had all the qualities to win. We now focus on our next match so that we get maximum three points," said him. He also seized the opportunity to caution Simba to work a lot on how to defend crosses and set-pieces say- ing they are conceding many goals through that style while expressing his doubts concerning defending the season's championship. In the same token, Namungo's top goal scorer Reliants Lusajo said his goal scoring insticts have not faded away despite playing many matches without putting the ball be- hind the net. "For me, I am not competing with anybody when it comes to scoring because the most important thing is to help my team win because that is our primary target as a club. I am sure that in the coming games, I will be able to score," he remarked. Namungo have cemented their third slot on the table with 30 points after 22 games as they look sharp determined to finish the race on the third place whic is heavily being contested for.