THE Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Charles Kichere on Saturday called upon the media to strengthen investigative journalism to ensure that public resources are utilised for the people's benefit. He made the call in Dar es Salaam at a National Audit Office (NAOT) during the breakfast meeting with editors aimed at clarifying various issues relating to the office in general, the CAG, and the audit activities they carry out in the country. “There are few newspapers that have focused on investigative journalism and have grown to do a very good job, therefore it is crucial for more efforts to be put in the area for public good,” he said. Mr Kichere said information provided by several media outlets has been proven to be of great help to his office and even other accountability stakeholders, assisting in finding risk indicators in many areas of concern for the management of public resources in the country. “Media is a very important stakeholder in good governance, accountability and transparency because your role is great for the community and the nation as a whole, thus it is crucial to put more focus on investigative journalism,” said Mr Kichere. According to the CAG, there are occasions when his office has been conducting special or forensic audits to ensure that the information they receive from the media is accurate. “The information you provide is critical to our success, proving that media is a vital stakeholder.” Mr Kichere commended the editors and journalists for using their pens to disseminate audit reports to the general public and other stakeholders. He added that as a result of their collaboration, CAG reports are becoming more widely known among the general public and other stakeholders. He further called on journalists to also report on CAG report on audit of information system.  “Audit reports on information systems have received little media attention, but via them we have recommended on matters such as system integration to save operating expenses and unnecessary bureaucracy,” he said. The difference between qualified and unqualified opinion was one of the areas explained by CAG at the discussion that most editors were interested in. An unqualified opinion, according to Mr Kichere, is considered a clean report. The auditors are satisfied with the company's financial reporting, and the auditor believes the company's operations are in line with governance principles and applicable legislation. While qualified opinion, he said is a report issued by an auditor that reports certain discrepancies in the financial statements prepared by the entity. These discrepancies are typically termed as qualifications. On the government's approach to the CAG's reports, he said it was encouraging to see the government taking action on various issues raised in the reports. The government took several measures against officials implicated in CAG’s reports, saying 525 civil servants connected to financial shortfalls in the 2019/2020 financial year reports faced various measures. These were civil servants in the Regional and Local Government Authorities, according to Minister of State in the President Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments, Innocent Bashungwa. Out of the total, 206 were given warnings, 27 were fired, 31 were suspended waiting for the public service procedures and 221 were under investigations of the Police or Prevention and Combating Corruption Bureau (PCCB). In addition, 20 accountants who signed incorrect financial statements were referred to the Board of Accountants and Auditors for further actions; regarding their involvement as recommended in the 2019/20 report. Mr Bashungwa hinted that CAG's Report on Local Government Authority Accounts for the 2020/21 financial year also identified approximately 103 audit issues; 70 per cent of those audit arguments (72) were due to Council’s experts failing to perform their duties properly.