THE shilling has started the week on the right footing after trading flat against the US dollar on the back of a moderate demand from the corporate. The pair, shilling and US dollar on Monday closed at 2,307/2,345 levels, according to NMB Bank's daily e-market report. However, according to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the pair closed the Monday session at 2,287/44 and 2,310/32 for buying and selling, respectively. NMB said in the report that the local currency was supported by moderate demand from corporates against matching flows from agri-export and Non-Government Organisations (NGOs). “We expect a similar trend can tomorrow [after the holiday] unless sizable trades enter the market,” NMB said. On a monthly basis, BoT data showed that the shilling depreciated minutely by a fraction of cents from 2,309/99 at the beginning of last month to 2,310/32 on Monday this week. Orbit Securities said in its weekly market synopsis that the shilling depreciated against the dollar by a mere 0.01 per cent in April. “The local currency and greenback exchange rate have continued to play in the dollar favour at the cost of the shilling,” Orbit said. Globally, on Monday the dollar rose back towards a 20-year high as the euro struggled around the $1.05 mark, with investors preparing for a busy week of central bank meetings including a likely Federal Reserve interest rate hike. The pound-to-dollar exchange rate has rallied half a per cent ahead of the weekend as sterling looks to recoup some of last week's approximately 2.5 per cent losses against a surging greenback. While, the euro's drop to a five-year low is rekindling the possibility the currency will reach parity versus the dollar for the first time in two decades, as fears of a eurozone recession encourage investors to pile on the bearish bets. On other hand, the Russian rouble rose to a more than two-year high against the euro last Friday, supported by capital controls as Russia appeared to make a last-gasp effort to avoid a default and the central bank slashed interest rates by 300 basis points to 14per cent.