MANUNGU Complex in Morogoro and Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera are the busiest with four teams engaged in a hunt for Premier League’s maximum points in the venues today. At Manungu, hosts Mtibwa Sugar host Azam in a hot duel  while far away at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera, hosts Kagera Sugar have a tough home fixture against combatants Ruvu Shooting in a must win encounter for the both sides. Azam will be targeting to shrug off a two-match win-less demon which has denied them victories in their past two games, hence a win today will be vital to scale up their hopes of finishing the season as the best third team. They suffered a 2-1 defeat to Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya before being held to a 1-1 draw by  Simba at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. The two teams lock horns with a 7-point gap between them as Azam have pocketed 33 points from  24 games as Mtibwa Sugar have hauled 28 points also from 24 fixtures, hence the latter eye to make full use of the home ground advantage. At Kaitaba Stadium, Kagera Sugar will be heads up not to drop crucial points from their backyard knowing in advance that the loss will threaten their race towards the best-five spot. They have collected 32 points from 24 encounters hence a triumph will see them collecting 35 points and cement their chances of remaining in the league next season. Kagera Sugar's recent match was a slim 1-0 win over Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya which was a setback to the latter as they continue to find it hard to overcome relegation threat. On the other hand, Ruvu Shooting will not let their opponents easily snatch away maximum points from them as such; they will also be in a combat mood to disappoint the hosts. They have managed to pick four points in their past two matches after defeating Geita Gold 2-1 before being forced to a 1-1 draw with KMC in their recent league fixture. Tomorrow, the defending champions Simba will be at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza taking on Geita Gold in a tense match with both teams aiming to grab encouraging results.