THE International Monetary Fund (IMF) has expressed satisfaction with the way the Union and Zanzibar governments have spent the USD 500 million (about 1.3tri/-), of the Covid-19 relief package. The funds were allocated to implement various projects in different sectors, among others, education, water, health and agriculture for mitigating effects of the pandemic in the country. Zanzibar received USD 100 million out of the total USD 500 million stimulus package. The Isles directed the money towards constructing new health facilities, classrooms and economic empowerment programmes for young people and women entrepreneurs. “We have been impressed by the pace of recovery projects in both Mainland and Zanzibar, and we will disburse more funds to the Union government to support longer programmes in Tanzania, aimed to further mitigate the impact of Covid-19, Ukraine and Russia war, and have a sustainable economic growth,” said Mr Charalambos Tsangarides- IMF mission Chief and Advisor. He delivered the good news during talks with senior executives led by the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of State- President’s Office, Finance and Planning, Dr Juma Malik Akili who presented to the IMF areas of interest that should be considered in the future allocation of funds. The Minister for the docket, Dr Saada Mkuya Salum, also said the IMF delegation was in Zanzibar for talks about preferable programmes ahead of second allocation of funds to Tanzania, which would also benefit Zanzibar. Later, the IMF delegation met with President Hussein Ali Mwinyi who commended the institution for continuing to support the Isles in stabilising its economy. “The Covid-19 package was of great economic relief and contributed significantly to Zanzibar's development after the pandemic,” he said. He added that the IMF’s move should be applauded since it was helpful at a time when the tourism sector was badly affected. Tourism plays a major role in the Isles budget as well as GDP, contributing about 27 per cent. Dr Mwinyi further thanked the IMF and its team which arrived in Zanzibar to continue supporting Zanzibar in the second batch of the funding. Mr Tsangarides explained to President Mwinyi various steps taken by the IMF in ensuring that Zanzibar directly benefits from the funds in order to facilitate its economic and development activities.