VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango has underscored the need for pursuing economic diplomacy in accelerating national development as emphasized by the 6th Phase Government. Dr Mpango made the remarks when he met with Tanzania’s High Commissioner to Malawi, Humphrey Polepole, who paid a courtesy call to the Vice-President. The VP directed the country’s new envoy to Malawi to work professionally and patriotically for the national interest. Dr Mpango congratulated Polepole for being appointed and trusted by President Samia Suluhu Hassan to represent the nation in Malawi, and implored him to work for the betterment of Tanzania. He recalled that President Samia’s government has placed greater emphasis on economic diplomacy and urged the new diplomat to strengthen economic cooperation at his workstation that will benefit Tanzania. He said African countries have the potential to invest and trade among themselves and reap huge benefits, hence, he urged Mr Polepole to attract Malawian investors to Tanzania as well as to seek investment opportunities in Malawi. “Identify national priorities including understanding the key aspects of the Five-Year Development Plan as well as the priorities in the 2020 Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Manifesto, that will contribute to the search for investors,” Dr Mpango told Polepole. He also instructed Mr Polepole to ensure that he participates in various meetings that will enable him to learn, explain the opportunities available in Tanzania as well as lure investors. Moreover, Dr Mpango called on the former MP to continue to promote the Kiswahili language in Malawi, including finding opportunities to teach the language in the southeastern country. On top of that Dr Mpango instructed the diplomat to unite Tanzanians living in Malawi to come up with ideas on how they can invest in the country and restore the skills and knowledge they have at home in Tanzania. For his part, Mr Polepole thanked the vice-president for the guidance given and pledged to work hard for the country’s interests. Mr Polepole noted that he had already started taking various steps with the view to resolve existing challenges through Tanzanian authorities such as the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). President Samia appointed Polepole to be High Commissioner of the United Republic of Tanzania to Malawi in March 2022, replacing Benedict Mashiba.