THE newly crowned 2022 Miss Tanzania Halima Kopwe has pledged to invest the 10m/- cash prize she won to scale up her preparations for the Miss World pageant saying she wants to put the country on the world map. Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa graced the grand finale at Mlimani City Hall in Dar es Salaam on Friday night and the gala attracted a good number of attendees who stormed the venue to witness the sparkling event. For winning the crown, Kopwe was gifted with a grand prize of Mercedes Benz C class 200 worth 40m/- and it was probably the most valued car for the country’s miss pageant to grab at the end of the contest. Speaking after being handled the keys to her brand new ride, Kopwe reiterated that she is not going to relax but rather invest the cash prize in her preparations to outshine in the next edition of Miss World. “Of course I am excited to be the overall winner, but being a representative of Tanzania in the upcoming Miss World competition, I will begin preparations right now in order to put my country on the world stage. “For my colleagues who did not win, they should not lose hope but rather keep on believing so that next time, they should be standing here and representing Tanzania,” said Kopwe. She added that this was her second attempt after finishing on top 10 in 2018 when she was 19 years old and could not give up until now she has managed to live her dreams hence contestants who could make it to the top spot should keep on aiming high. “I have learnt a lot from the first camp which to a larger extent has helped me to emerge the winner this year, therefore the most important thing for those who did not make it this far is to never stop dreaming,” she said. She again lauded The Look Company for the grand prize of the Mercedes Benz saying it was her dream car and without them, she could not succeed to own it. A renowned Bongo Flava artiste Ben Pol was among the performers on the day dishing out soul touching hits to keep the attendees in jovial mood.