ON May 28, every year, the world marks the Menstrual Hygiene Day which aims at highlighting the importance of menstrual care and raising awareness about issues faced by those who do not have access to sanitary products. This year the theme for the Menstrual Hygiene Day 2022 is ‘Making menstruation a normal fact of life by 2030’. The overarching goal is to build a world where no one is held back because they menstruate by 2030. The theme for this year aims at making access to sanitary products, safe, hygienic spaces in which to use them, and the right to manage menstruation without shame or stigma. Available statistics indicate that millions of women and girls around the world are stigmatised, excluded, and discriminated against simply because they menstruate. It is not acceptable that because of a natural bodily function women and girls continue to be prevented from getting an education, earning an income, and fully and equally participating in everyday life. In Tanzania, WaterAid Tanzania has since the year 1983 remained resolutely focused on tackling three essential needs for all human beings by making clean water, decent toilets, and good hygiene normal for everyone, everywhere within a generation. “Without all three, people can’t live dignified, healthy lives. With all three, they can unlock their potential, break free from poverty, and change their lives for good. Children grow up healthy and strong, women and men get to earn a living, and whole communities start to thrive,” says Ms Anna Mzinga, WaterAid Country Director for Tanzania. Adding; “It sounds normal and it should be. WaterAid Tanzania is fortunate to have the enthusiastic support of the government of Tanzania and from all walks of life from politicians, citizens, donors, advocates, teachers, parents, policy-makers, and students.” She mentioned other partners who have been supporting the organisation as religious leaders, business executives and many other people who understand that a girl child should not be denied her basic right to clean water and sanitation and proper hygiene. Ms Mzinga notes further that while all this is true, in Tanzania, children's lack of satisfactory sanitation and hygiene facilities in schools has a greater negative impact on girls than boys. She emphasizes that girls need safe, clean, separate, and private sanitation and hygiene facilities in schools, noting that adolescent girls are especially vulnerable to dropping out as many are unwilling to continue their schooling since toilets and washing facilities are not private and simply not available. WaterAid through funding from the Foreign Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) in partnership and collaboration with the Ministry of Health has implemented a sanitation and hygiene campaign with specific attention to schools and neighbouring communities. A total of 20 schools from Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Coast, Dodoma and Singida regions, are currently benefitting from “The back-to-school Campaign”. WaterAid through this project was able to provide different teaching tools and materials to teachers for teaching hygiene education in Mringa Primary school. This includes a menstrual hygiene block which is fully furnished with 4 rooms: a resting room, changing room, a learning/knowledge room, and a health/hygiene teacher’s office. “Apart from this, a hand-washing facility was built not so far from the menstrual block and the toilets to enable/ emphasize the behaviour of hand-washing to students,” Ms Mzinga states. Through similar interventions, WaterAid Tanzania aims at reaching out to 30 schools in Tanzania in Kisarawe District, Coast region through the financial support from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). “In these challenging and uncertain times of the Covid-19 pandemic, it’s important to share where WaterAid stands as an organisation. Today, we’re as committed as ever to equity and inclusion for girls, and women and lasting, long-term solutions,” she elaborates. Ms Mzinga adds; “We also have a proud tradition of standing up for causes we believe in when they have a direct impact on the communities we serve with water, sanitation, and hygiene services. You can count on us to continue doing what we do best: deliver water, sanitation, and hygiene services, strengthen community know-how and advocate for long-term policy success in 28 countries across the globe.” Ms Mzinga assures stakeholders that WaterAid Tanzania will continue with its proactive advocacy in support of WASH and initiatives that focus on menstrual health and hygiene to help girls stay in school. “Just like you, all of us at WaterAid Tanzania want the very best for our country: a country that is strong in its values and steeped in tradition. As we commemorate this day, we call for the government of Tanzania, donors, development partners, implementing partners, and service providers to prioritise hygiene,” she observes. Ms Mzinga stresses designing hygiene behaviour change intervention packages to motivate people by understanding and appealing to what they care about, taking into account the norms and values they share with their wider community most especially girls. “Let us listen and commit to keeping all girls healthy and at school. Together, we will keep all girls at school through proper hygiene. Through collaboration with other stakeholders we want to make sure that our children who are going to schools are in good environment and infrastructures that will enable and preventing them from infectious diseases and mostly through on the hand-washing habit,” she notes. The WaterAid Tanzania Country Director calls upon all stakeholders to continue girls to maintain hygiene when they are going through their menstrual periods. The WaterAid Tanzania five-year strategy is closely aligned with the government of Tanzania's Water Sector Development Programme (WSDP).