DEAR nephew Milambo Greetings from this land of underage outlaws and confused weather patterns. I hope that the grace of Limatunda has been watching over you and the entire village of my beloved Ukumbisiganga. Here in the city, things are not bad, we thank Liwelelo for his protection despite challenging things taking place, which might anger the ancestors. I hope your family is doing okay, and I hope your expectant wife is also doing okay after the bout of malaria which put her down. I hope you followed my advice and bought the treated mosquito net I told you to buy, because that will help to protect her and the unborn child from that terrible disease, and in her condition you really need to take good care of her. My dear son, just yesterday I nearly killed one of those boys who terrorised us when you were here, and may Limatunda forgive me, but I wish I had succeeded. You see, two days after you left, the wife of my neighbour, mzee Khalfan, was badly wounded when she was attacked by those youths calling themselves Panya Road. She had gone to visit her sick sister who lives in Kunduchi, and when she was on her way back, those rodents attacked her and many others before robbing them of their valuables. As I am writing this, that woman is still admitted at Muhimbili Hospital with serious head injuries, because they slashed her with a machete. Me and your aunt went to visit her in hospital, and we thank Limatunda that she is progressing well, and I think she will be discharged in a day or two. Anyway, yesterday me and your aunt stayed very late watching TV, and by the time we decided to go to bed, it was already heading to 2am. You know at my age sleep usually takes time to come, and I was lying in bed watching the ceiling and listening at the soft snores of your aunt, when the dog started barking. I thought it was a normal thing because that dog always goes berserk when it sees the neighbour’s cat, which likes to pass over our wall. But this time round the barking was intense, and I stepped from the bed to go and peep at the window to see what was happening. Suddenly the dog went quiet before I reached the window, and pushing the bedroom curtain aside, I saw three young men standing over the motionless dog. I knew immediately that our lives were in danger, and I quickly went to the wooden cabinet where I usually keep my hunting rifle, the one I inherited from my grandfather. By this time your aunt was already awake, and when she saw me holding the gun, she nearly screamed, but I motioned to her to keep quiet. Looking outside the window, I saw one of the boys trying to unlock the car which was parked below our bedroom window, and I was surprised that the car alarm did not go off. The other boy was busy trying to open the store door, and I scanned the whole area but I did not see the third boy, but I knew he was somewhere within the compound, and I knew probably he was trying to find his way inside the house. I slid open my bedroom window, and I could see the boy at the car trying to force the side mirror loose, his back was towards me as I took careful aim and fired. My dear son, you know that the old rifle was probably used in the second world war, therefore the noise was deafening, and two people screamed at the same time, your aunt and the boy who went down like a sack of potato. I kept my cool as I cocked the gun for another shot, and I could see the other two boys scrambling to climb over the wall, and my second shot hit one of them on the leg as he jumped over. What I did was to get your aunt’s pistol and ran downstairs, leaving your aunt still screaming her head off. I opened the front door and went to where the first boy was still lying, and I could see a pool of blood, but he was still alive, wreathing in pain in his own blood. A few minutes later several of my neighbours came over, and I could see mzee Khalfan with his own gun, and he was ready to finish off the boy, and I know he was still thinking of what they had done to his wife. We found blood on the other side of the wall, but the other two boys had managed to escape, one of them with a bullet wound on his leg. It seems the fools had hit the dog on the head, because we found it unconscious with a bump the size of a healthy chicken egg on top of its head. We found out later that the three boys were part of a group consisting of almost 20 boys, and that they had terrorised several people before deciding to come to our area and steal from houses. We called the police and they left with the injured boy, who had one of my bullets lodged in his left shoulder, leaving mzee Khalfan complaining vehemently that we should have finished the boy before calling the police. Anyway, my dear son, I hope that the police will soon find a lasting cure for these young hooligans, because I understand that if they get arrested, it is their parents who bail them out, and two days later you find them back in the streets. So that is what happened my dear boy. Right now your aunt is still scared over what happened, but I know she will be okay, she is a strong woman. Say hi to your lovely family my dear son, and don’t worry about us, because I know after what happened, it will take a courageous person to try and jump my wall again. After sending this letter, I am planning to dismantle the old rifle and find out why I missed that boy’s head.