PRESIDENT Hussein Mwinyi has expressed hopes that the objectives for establishment of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) will be achieved to the expectations of its members. Dr Mwinyi made remarks here during a meeting with AfCFTA delegation which visited Zanzibar and later had a consultative meeting with the business community in the Islands. The President observed that the size of the Africa trade area presents promising economic development and sustainable growth that reaches all markets in different sectors. He thanked the AfCFTA management led by its Secretary General Wamkele Mene for the ongoing efforts to make the institution stronger and effective. "We should have hope for positive impacts on our coun- tries with special focus on Islands." Dr Mwinyi said since anzania is a member of the African trade area, members of the business community and industrialists should make the best use of the opportunity to galvanise implementation of the blue economy- Zanzibar's national agenda. Elaborating, the president promised to increase public awareness on AfCFTA as its Secretary General Mr Mene mentioned that the organisation would have social and economic impact to the country, because it has multiple benefits to the people. Mr Mene said the objectives of the AfCFTA include creating a single market for goods and services to increase trading among African nations, and it is tasked to implement protocols which eliminate trade barriers and cooperate with member states on investment and competition policies, intellectual property rights, settlement of dis- putes and other trade-liberating strategies. Mr Mene commended the leadership in both Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar for improving business and investment environment, adding that the delegation was in the country to facilitate public awareness on the AfCFTA so that it is well understood. He said Zanzibar and the mainland as member countries have been doing well and that the AfCFTA agreement should be well understood among the people for smooth implementation and for its benefits to be felt across the country. "We are in the country to facilitate public awareness. We have organised a training session for legislators from the union parliament and House of Representatives," Mr Mene informed the President, before the training was held on Sunday in North Unguja region. He emphasized on the need for awareness, advocacy, and promotion of AfCFTA among the member states, adding that countries of Islands like Zanzibar have special consideration including focus on 'Blue Economy (BE).' Meanwhile, the Zanzibar Minister for Trade and Industrial Development Omar Said Shaaban said the AfCFTA has come at the right time for many African countries as it will help significantly promote business opportunities under the common market. Opening a training workshop on AfCFTA for MPs in the union parliament and representatives in Zanzibar House, he said the aim of the workshop was to raise awareness for them to understand the available opportunities, including trade and investment. Mr Shaaban said Tanzania is a member which contributed significantly to the establishment of the agreement, believing it will help to build the economy including the small island countries' initiative, especially in producing and importing locally produced products, including spices. "We need to get educated and pass the knowledge to the people we lead. We expect it delivers positive impacts as exapected, including how to produce or manufacture quality products with acceptable packaging," the Minister said. Dr Emeka Uzomba, senior advisor at Afrexim Bank, who attended the workshop, said the growth of business and trade in the continent would significantly help create jobs through trade. Some legislators who attended the workshop advised on the importance of supporting entrepreneurs to produce quality products to compete in the free market. The legislators noted that the trade initiative will also diversify intra-African trade as it would encourage more industrial goods as opposed to extractive goods and natural resources.