YOUNG  Africans have called for maximum unity to help the team shine in their remaining seven matches of the Premier League  so as to claim the throne before the season concludes. Yanga,the current league toppers head to face Dodoma Jiji at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma this Sunday in a bid shrug off the win-less demon that has haunted them in their past three encounters. Pressure is mounting for the Jangwani Street side mainly after enduring a rough ride in their three matches, a feat they have not been used to. Things got sour after recording a third draw with Tanzania Prisons on Monday which was a bitter pill for them no wonder they now seek intensive support from their fans to boost morale of players. "It was not intentional to get one point, but that is what transpired and here is where the difficult part of the league comes. We are now calling for Yanga family to be united and march forward according to go along with our slogan. "These results have affected us a lot and in order to forget the setback, we have to come together and push the team to do well in our next games beginning with the one against Dodoma Jiji on Sunday," said the team's Information Officer Hassan Bumbuli. He added that with the remaining seven matches, they intend to win all of them so as to collect maximum points which will necessitate them to be announced new champions early before the contest winds up. "We still have advantage to be the champions in advance only if we manage to win a couple of games lined up for us and this is what we want to achieve as a club," said him. Moreover, Bumbuli said the team's technical bench has identified mistakes which deterred them maximum points in their three previous fixtures hence they will fix them ahead of their upcoming fresh encounters. Yanga have so far stamped six draws in the unfolding campaign and are yet to concede a defeat after 23 matches hence how they will react on Sunday remain a debatable subject. However, according to Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), their game against Dodoma Jiji will be  under floodlights as it has been pegged to kickoff at 7:00pm and it will be the first time for Yanga to play at Jamhuri Stadium at night. So far, there are four league hosting venues capable to stage night matches.They Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, Azam Complex, Jamhuri Stadium and Kaitaba Stadium,even though plans are in pipeline to extend the advantage to other arenas.