LABORATORY workers in Mwanza region have been asked to embrace professionalism in order to save the lives of Tanzanians and relieve patients from spending high costs on health services. Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC) Engineer Robert Gabriel issued the call on Wednesday here in the city during the commemoration of the week of laboratory experts in Mwanza region, where the specialists displayed their services to the community and at the same time offered free diagnostic services for diseases like hypertension, hepatitis, diabetes, HIV and Corona Virus. Eng Gabriel said the presence of the specialists in all areas that provide health care is crucial in enabling patients to receive appropriate treatment for their ailments. He said the presence of the service is important as there have been cases of outbreaks of infectious diseases whose solution is through testing to understand the best way to treat. "Your service is important as it enables the nation to set guidelines on how to deal with outbreaks of diseases," said Eng Gabriel. The RC urged the jobless young graduates to organise themselves in groups and apply for funding from councils for setting up laboratories. Chairman of the Medical Laboratory Scientists Association of Tanzania (MeLSAT) in Mwanza region, Mr Bertrand Msemwa, said their aim was to make the community aware of the importance of using laboratory services, showcase their work, evaluate and strategise to achieve success in caring for citizens. Mwanza Regional Laboratory Services Coordinator, Mr Shigella Julius, said they have been conducting regular inspections to ensure that the services provided were of high quality to help patients. He said Mwanza region has 221 laboratories, out of which 84 are state-owned and 137 are private. MeLSAT President Joseph Gimbuya said they needed to build good relations with the government to enhance access to quality services for Tanzanians. He called upon the government to recruit more young graduates who studied medical laboratory science since many health facilities in the country still need such staff.