A TOTAL of 162.8tri/- was transacted through mobile money as of April 30, during this financial year, the Parliament was told on Friday by the government. Tabling the ministry’s 2022/23 budget estimates, Minister for Information, Communications and Information Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye, said on Friday that the total amount was reached after mobile phone users had made 3,261,152,614 transactions. Mr Nnauye said through the Teletraffic Management System (TTMS) the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) targeted to collect 150bn/- in the 2021/22 financial year. By April 30, 2022 the TCRA collected 141.8bn/-, which is equivalent to 95 per cent of the target. He said the TTMS has helped the government to collect its due revenues. The system has enabled the government to collect 7.9bn/- from incoming international calls. Moreover, he said, the number of internet users went up to 29.9 million people in April 2022 compared to 29.1 million in 2021. The minister said the government has set in place strong measures to control possible revenue loss loopholes, particularly for collection from incoming international calls whereas 920 illegal diversion calls were identified. TCRA conducted special inspections in the regions of Arusha, Kagera and Morogoro and nabbed equipment used in the international calls diversions and eight suspects were arraigned. He said the government through the TCRA is dealing with challenges coming with the technological advancement including the cyber-attacks. Through the National Computer Emergency Response Team (TZ-CERT), the government makes 24-hour monitoring to ensure the country's computer systems and communications are safe from the attacks and take proper interventions. During the period, he said, the National Computer Emergency Response Team issued 875 security alerts and 726 security advisories and took proper interventions to control the situation. A total of 83 Information Technology experts  from various institutions were equipped with cyber security incident response skills so that they could be able to detect, deal and identify the cyber-attacks. Minister Nnauye said TCRA is moving on with its obligation to inspect and verify standards of the electronic and communication gadgets for the sake of protecting health and safety as well as maintain public security. Having a communication policy which is being supported by law and regulations has been pivotal tool in enabling the TCRA to effectively monitor, control and planning of proper use of information technology resources. On top of that, TCRA has a procedure of setting aside special funds for supporting youths who have ICT innovations under the Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH). Consumers’ needs and complaints are being taken into consideration through the TCRA-CCC and as from July 2021 to April 2022, a total of 3,033 cases were lodged of which 2,996 have been decided. Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee for Infrastructure, Mr Selemani Kakoso directed TCRA to increase public awareness on the need of taking care of communications infrastructure. Moreover, the committee directed the authority to meet with mobile phone operators and chart out the best ways to reduce complaints from mobile phone users over internet data usage. Mr Kakoso also called upon TCRA to work closely with the Police Force in addressing cybercrimes.