THE Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) has undertaken two-week training aimed at exposing officials from the Office of the Controller and Auditor General of Zanzibar (OCAGZ) on public audit management. The training was part of efforts to make public servants make proper use of public resources in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, KOICA’s Young Professional for Tanzania office, Ms Yumin Kim, said the training is designed to develop capacity building for government officials by providing references to the public audit management of Korea. “It is also aimed at exposing government officials on how to manage the public audit in a better and more effective way,” Ms Kim said during the training which was conducted last week in Dar es Salaam. Ms Kim was categorical that the South Korea will continue to provide capacity building opportunities for the government officials of Tanzania. The training began as online training, she said, elaborating further that during this year, six training programmes will be held in which public audit management is the first course which is implemented by the Board of Audit and Inspection (BAI) of the Republic of Korea. She said the trainees have learned useful knowledge and audit skills including the public audit system of Korea, audit procedures, quality assurance, and the role of the BAI in the process of economic growth and forensic audit methodologies. The same training was conducted for officials from the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT) last year, she explained. One of the trainees of the training who is an audit supervisor at OCAGZ, Mr Salum Suleiman Ali, said the programme has imparted new experience to external auditors from Zanzibar on improving audits of public funds and projects. “The other important lesson is on pre-consulting audit services which are conducted in Korea for major projects before and during their implementation. “The arrangement allows auditors to review the execution of projects before implementation so as to advise the government on any anomalies before the project in question is implemented,” he explained. Mr Ali stated as well that through the training they have learned that, unlike in many countries, public audits in the Republic of Korea are inclusive since they engage the ordinary citizens. “Their audit legislation allows a certain number of people to request an audit report for a project which they think has not been executed properly,” he explained. For her part, another audit supervisor at OCAGZ, Ms Maimuna Mohamed Salum, noted further that participants have been trained in gathering forensic evidence from electronic gadgets. “They (the Koreans) have shown us how they started the process and where they have reached at the moment. We should thus expect to register improvement in audits in information and communication technology,” she stated. Between the year 1991 and 2021, KOICA has invited more than 2,000 Tanzanian government officials to South Korea to pursue long and short courses to enhance their capacity and strengthen the partnership between the two countries.