THE AgResults Tanzania Dairy Productivity Challenge Project is fundamental in boosting livestock sector’s contributions to economic growth, the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Mashimba Ndaki has said. He said that in Dar es Salaam over the weekend at the AgResults Tanzania Dairy Productivity Challenge Project award ceremony to recognise achievements of input suppliers over the competition’s second sales period to deliver productivity increasing inputs along with advisory services to smallholder farmers. “The government has recognised the AgResults Tanzania Dairy Productivity Challenge Project’s contributions to the implementation of the Tanzania Livestock Master Plan. “This gives us confidence that through public-private partnerships, we can solve many challenges facing the livestock sector in Tanzania,” he said. The Sales Period 2 Award ceremony brought together government representatives, development partners, and private sector stakeholders to recognise the project’s growing momentum in its second year and reflect on its potential to strengthen the dairy sector. The event began with welcoming remarks from Land O’Lakes Venture 37 Team Vice-President John Ellenberger who said the project was engaging with a wide variety of stakeholders, including the government to ensure the availability of inputs and enhanced service delivery. “This strong collaboration has led to the achievements we see today. Congratulations to the competitors for their innovation and resilience,” Mr Ellenberger said. Mr Rodrigo Ortiz from the AgResults Secretariat said Tanzania project fits into the broader goals and approach of the initiative, namely using monetary incentives to drive private sector innovation that benefits the entire value chain. “This second year built on the experimentation and innovation of Sales Period 1,” said Mr Ortiz. Since 2020, the project has tackled issues of low dairy productivity and limited access to inputs providing monetary prizes for businesses that deliver a variety of input ‘bundles’ and advisory services to farmers. Tanzania Dairy Productivity Challenge Project Manager, Neema Mrema said they have organised the event to recognise each and every competitor’s efforts and to present them with their prizes, which required a great deal of innovation, learning, and adaptation along the way. The winners were Agricare Enterprises, ATOZ Universal, Damian Agrovet, IDD Agrovet, Kile Agrovet, Kilosa Veterinary Centre, MiL Animal Nutrition Innovation Centre Ltd, Oiso Agrovet, Twins Agrovet and General Supplies, and Vetfarm.