AS the 2022 Population and Housing Census draws close in August, Tanzanians irrespective of one’s ethnic community, religion, political stance, sex, you name it must be involved in this noble exercise right from the grassroots, because it is for one’s own development in the country. Graced last year by President Samia Suluhu Hassan in Dodoma it should be the work of government leaders, religious heads and other influential people to mount special public awareness campaigns aimed at intensively educating, encouraging and promoting participation of all people in the census that is for Tanzanians. Identified as ‘The Publicity and Advocacy Strategy for the National Population and Housing census, 2022’ the initiative is aimed at sensitising and mobilising Tanzanians to cooperate and take part in the crucial exercise for the development of the nation with the realisation that no foreigner would come and develop the country, if the nationals take this for granted. This is an important exercise that every Tanzanian should be aware of, because it will assist the government they elected to power to come up with reliable and detailed information on their population density. This is important because the information obtained will assist also in the distribution of resources; for example, areas densely populated get, as a rule, more resources than the ones that are scarcely populated. This is a national exercise conducted after every decade in the country that everyone should respect regardless of one’s political stance or any other reason, because at the end of the day, its findings will enable the State to determine the number of taxable adults among others. In this area, the determined number of people who can pay taxes in the country will help in the estimation of the amount of revenue that can be obtained from the tax sector. Remember taxes collected repair roads, buy drugs in hospitals and among others pay salaries to civil servants including soldiers, who guard our country. This is the time every leader right from the grassroots should educate the nationals on its importance and accord the personnel, who will go about it maximum cooperation in all parts of the country. The public should also be educated that the census data gives the government an idea of what kind of social amenities should be provided to particular areas, for example, hospitals, housing, water, electricity and others, all these in turn are for the benefit of the communities. It should be noted in the public that it is the centre of every planning activity of the government and no meaningful development planning activity can be conducted without taking it into account. It helps not only to estimate the changes in the population in the country at a specific time, but to also evaluate other crucial changes in the country’s demographics, for instance again; it provides data used by the government for policy-making, planning and administration aimed at enhancing the welfare of the people.