RECENT bilateral trade agreements between Tanzania and India have started paying dividends, as a total of 22.3 tonnes of Tanzanian grown Hass avocados worth 103m/- have smoothly arrived in Mumbai. The initial container loaded with avocados from Makambako-based Avo Africa, was received by its dealer IG Fruits International in a colourful function presided over by Tanzania’s High Commissioner to India, Ambassador Anisa Mbega. “This is a great day for the horticulture industry in Tanzania, as we receive the first container of Hass avocados shipped through sea. Well done TAHA for the tireless efforts, Avo Africa for producing quality avocados and IG fruits international for purchasing the butter fruits” Ambassador Mbega said during the reception of the shipment. Despite being the third-largest avocado producer in Africa after South Africa and Kenya, Tanzanian farmers have largely failed to access the export market for their produce due to quarantine pests believed to exist in the country. However, the latest move by India is a huge boost for the local avocado industry since it opens doors for many smallholder farmers to reach international consumers instead of crowding the domestic market, officials said. “We’re so proud to be part of this breakthrough. We thank God for this incredible achievement. My earnest appreciations go to our government, Ministry of Agriculture, our member, Avo Africa, our subsidiary logistic company TAHA Fresh and of course, Mumbai based IG fruits and our envoy in India, Ambassador Mbega for the great support” TAHA CEO, Dr Jacqueline Mkindi noted, adding: “We are grateful to see this happening as a result of Dubai Expo 2020, where the government and TAHA had signed a number of bilateral trade agreements meant to open up international markets for local fresh crops”. “This is a win-win deal. Whereas Tanzanian growers and exporters are smiling all the way to the bank to secure a niche market for their avocados, Indian consumers are also whetting appetites as the Tanzanian fruits would be more or less cheap and fresh,” Dr Mkindi explained. The East Africa Maritime Award Winning, logistic company dedicated to facilitating horticultural crops exports and imports, TAHA Fresh, has successfully shipped the delicate consignment by sea all the way to Mumbai-based Jawaharlal Port. TAHA Fresh Handling Ltd General Manager, Mr Amani Temu said his logistic firm has been playing a critical role in absorbing costly and time-consuming cross-border non-tariff barriers to export horticulture produce overseas. TAHA Fresh Ltd offers a wide range of horticultural products, export and import services including its flagship airfreight, clearing and forwarding, refrigerated trucking, perishable handling, and sea freight from both Dar es Salaam and Mombasa ports. The Ministry of Agriculture commended TAHA on behalf of the private sector for being proactive in international crops’ trade, pledging that the government would continue strengthening the bilateral trade ties and opening up overseas markets. With no import duty on Tanzanian avocados, Shubha Rawal of IG Fruits International said the fruit would be reasonably priced for Indian consumers, helping grow the category. “For a long time, India had been bereft of the goodness of creamy Tanzanian avocados,” said Rawal. “At IG International, we will offer the joy of biting into a selectively luscious bunch of Hass avocados straight from the lush green lap of Tanzania at very fair prices.” Avo Africa is part of the Keitt Group, which has grown and exported fruit and vegetables to markets in Europe and the Middle East for over two decades. It claims to be the biggest grower-exporter of avocados from Tanzania and Kenya. Director of Commercial and Operations Keitt Group - Tanzania and Kenya Dipesh Devraj said the Indian market had enormous potential for Tanzanian avocados. “In January, a trade prohibition on avocado shipments from Tanzania to India was removed, allowing us to access the Indian fresh produce market,” Devraj explained. “Over the years, our avocados have been adored across the world, and now we wish to introduce them to India.