THE ongoing projects to improve port infrastructures have reached promising stages and show how Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has advanced to handle increasing coming and outgoing cargoes. The authority has equally dismissed what it termed as misleading information spreading on social media that the increase in local cargo was as a result of traders avoiding Kenyan ports due to uncertainty in the country in its election campaigns. "It is true that our ports have been getting more cargo, but this has nothing to do with forthcoming Kenyan elections," Nicodemus Mushi, TPA's Acting Marketing and Public Relations Director told the DAILY NEWS in an interview, on Sunday. He added; "the increased imported and exported cargo at our ports are due to renovations made, especially the berth Zero to berth Seven have been reconstructed, coupled with dredging the ports to allow larger ships to dock with ease.” Mr Mushi stated that the renovations have therefore lured more customers from East and Central African countries to opt for the Dar es Salaam port due to its geographical advantage. He cited other reasons for cargo increase as resurging of global movements of goods which had been previously paralysed by the Covid-19 restrictions, and in turn affected production and transportation of goods. "Production and transportation of goods resume globally, and this is the reason for our ports to have more cargo in recent days in comparison to neighbouring countries,” he said. On other hand, Mr Mushi told the ‘Daily News’ that the TPA was anticipating even more cargo increase and was ready to handle them efficiently, adding that the Dar es Salaam Port has been capacitated to accommodate largest ships. Elaborating, Mr Mushi said some large ships will start loading and offloading cargoes at the Dar es Salaam Port as soon as ongoing dredging entrance channel work is soon accomplished. He said various machines for speeding up cargo loading and offloading have already been procured, adding that some are on their ways from manufacturers, and hence promising more efficiency and efficacy. "The public should understand that Tanzania and Kenya are neighbours with strong bilateral relations. Hence, TPA wishes Kenya well, but it is true that some customers tend to opt for our nearby ports instead of Mombasa Port,” he argued. Rwanda and Burundi rely on Tanzania's ports for almost all of their imports and exports as well as cargo destined for the Democratic Republic of Congo, which are on the increase.