THE Parliamentary Standing Committee for Infrastructure has advised the government to invest heavily in the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), while improving its workers’ welfare. Apart from calling for further investment, the committee also underscored the need for reimbursement of subsidy to make the state-owned media company operate commercially and pay the needed dividend to the government. The Committee Chairman, Mr Selemani Kakoso gave the call here when presenting committee’s recommendations to the Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology budget for the 2022/2023 financial year. He also underscored the need to ensure that TSN and the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) have the needed number of employees and their remuneration package enticing so that they are not attracted to shift to other institutions for greener pastures. The Committee also advised TSN and TBC to operate commercially, to come up with business projects that are vibrant enough to generate the needed revenue for smooth operations. Mr Kakoso said the government must ensure that public institutions pay TSN debts amounting to 11bn/-. Tabling the 2022/2023 budget estimates, Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye, said  in the coming financial year they will inject 9bn/- for TSN to purchase state-of-the-art commercial printing machine. He said the commercial printing machine is expected to be the main source of revenue generation for TSN as well as improve the look of the state-owned newspapers of Daily News, Sunday News, HabariLeo and Spoti Leo. Mr Nnauye said the new printing machine, apart from giving the papers a good look it will run commercially, producing various printing products to serve both local and international customers. He said in the next financial year, TSN is expected to collect 16.5bn/- from the sale of its products and services like advertisements, newspapers, commercial printing, media consultancy and rents from its real estates. TSN will add value to its products as well as media services by ensuring its newspapers and digital media platform increase productivity, with 80 per cent of the content to be local. TSN will as well increase and improve the sales and revenue and debt collection that will go hand in hand with close monitoring of the financial resources to increase the company capital by ten per cent. The digital platforms will have a wide range of local content to increase viewership by 20 per cent while the sales of E-paper are expected to go up by ten per cent and come up with Multimedia Digital Studio to be installed in Dar es Salaam. For improved TSN efficiency, the minister said they have addressed some of the challenges that were hindering the institution's smooth performance by purchasing working gears including 15 vehicles. Mr Nnauye told the National Assembly that in the 2021/22 financial year, TSN planned to collect 14bn/- from its own sources but as of April 30, 2022 managed to collect 49 per cent of the target. He said TSN has remained a reliable and authoritative media and a key link between the government and the public through its newspapers and online platforms being guided by professionalism and ethics. TSN content and outfit will be improved to meet the demand of readers and viewers, majorly being development aspects focusing the Six Phase Government implementation of the strategic projects and election manifesto. Moreover, TSN has published six special supplements which have generated 948.7m/-on a number of national events including 60th Independence Anniversary, 58th Zanzibar Revolution Anniversary and one year term in office for President Samia Suluhu Hassan.