ZANZIBAR First Vice-President Othman Massoud Othman has launched tree planting campaign with an objective of transforming the Isles into ‘green zone’. At the inauguration that will include planting trees in schools, Mr Othman called upon Zanzibaris to plant a variety of trees including those which produce fruits. He made the call at Mwera School in Magharib 'A' District in the Unguja as Zanzibar embarked on a weeklong campaign to plant trees to mark the World Environment Day celebrated on June 5 every year. “Serious exercise of planting trees, as well as stopping deforestation will contribute to controlling the impacts of climate change. Forests also remain important to economic growth and medicines,” he pointed out. Mr Othman said that it is clear that Zanzibaris like many other people in the world cannot live without trees, hence cautioned against random cutting down of trees. “I urge members of the community to continue working with various government and private sector to ensure that the issue of re-forestation is properly motivated so that commitment of achieving green Zanzibar is realised,” he added. Equally, the First Vice-President reminded leaders at regional and district levels to ensure urban and rural master plans are properly observed and managed in order to stop illegal and illogical building of houses in various parts of Zanzibar. Commenting, Unguja South Regional Commissioner (RC) Rashid Hadid Rashid noted that great efforts including collaborating with various institutions and authorities are being made to ensure tree planting is successful. Meanwhile, in efforts to ensure 'Public-private partnerships (PPPs) with new drive succeed; executives in Zanzibar government have been urged to understand the concept, so as to help minimise shoddy and substandard work. The call was made by Zanzibar's Chief Secretary (CS) Ms Engineer Zena Ahmed Said during a PPP capacity building training to Principal Secretaries, Regional Commissioners (RCs), District Commissioners (DCs), directors in public institutions and other executives in the government. The training organised by the State Ministry - President's Office (Labour, Economy, and Investment) was facilitated by the World Bank recognised and certified experts in PPP Mr Abdi Mwalimu Shehe and Mr Ibrahim Mohamed Salum. Mr Shehe and Mr Salum explained to participants a range of PPP models that allocate responsibilities and risks between the public and private partners in different ways, adding that having enough knowledge can help meet the public interest objectives in PPPs. During the training held at Sheikh Idris Abdulwakil multipurpose hall, Kikwajuni area, the executives discussed how to build the capacity within government to implement PPPs, and the need to build specific PPP skills, particularly for national PPP unit staff to minimise loss.