THE government has been asked to restructure the Local Government Authorities (LGAs) funds to have a special window for financing innovation to effectively contribute to the national economic development. The remark was issued in Dar es Salam on Tuesday during the symposium ahead of the climax of innovation week Tanzania 2022 (IWTz) by the Chief Executive Officer of the SSC Capital, Mr Salim Awadhi. MrAwadhinsisted on the restructuring of the LGAs in order to increase employment opportunities to the citizens. The CEO also emphasized on the significance of the innovations for sustainable development since it could lead to unlocking public and private resources, especially at the domestic level, to reduce poverty and support the local economy. Speaking of innovation financing in Tanzania Mr Awadhi cited challenges lack of evident data since there is no enough quantitative data on commercialized innovations, market readiness, scalability as well as technical know-how. On the other hand, the Director of Research, Policy and Planning from the Capital Markets and Securities Authorities (CMSA), Mr Alfred Mkombo, commended the government for being active in managing the capital markets and the financial institutions to ensure they contribute to the economic developments. MrMkomboalso appealed to the Tanzanians to be careful especially for those who want to learn about investment issues not to go to unregistered and unlicensed networks and platforms instead they have to contact the relevant authority to avoid fraud. In creating enabling environment for the operation and regulation of funding in Tanzania, MrMkombo said CMSA was in process of creating the draft of the electronic crowding fund platform by involving different stakeholders. “We cooperate with other stakeholders in the capital market including the Bank of Tanzania (BOT), UNDP, Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange PLC (DSE) and other executives in capital market,” the director said. On behalf of the Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), Partnership Lead, Ms Promise Mwakale , said the commission is continuing to make various efforts to provide the support for the innovation among the young generation in the country for example in the national competition on science, technology and innovation (MAKISATU). The 2022 innovation week in Tanzania has been aspired by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, COSTECH and United Nations Development Programme through its project Ufunguo while the event is expected to culminate between 16 to 20th  May in Dodoma few days to come.