THE government has tasked the Energy and Water Regulatory Authority (EWURA) to come up with regulations on the price of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) that is being installed in motor vehicles. Moreover, the government has held talks with various fuel stations to operate, and 18 of them have shown interest in extending their service by providing CNG at their posts. This was unveiled by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy, Engineer Felchesmi Mramba shortly after launching a Clean Energy Transition Report under the facilitation of the Norwegian Embassy in Tanzania. According to him, successful completion of the strategy will minimize impacts of the increase of costs of living caused by hike in fuel price at global and national level. He said the government is working to attract the establishment of more stations that will be used to convert vehicles from petrol and diesel to natural gas. “Right now the service can be accessed in four stations such as Goba, University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Tazara and the one in Mtwara at Dangote factory,” he said. However, he noted that the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) is finalizing procedures for establishing main gas filling plants to be set at UDSM, Ubungo Maziwa and Mlalakuwa in Dar es Salaam. “There will be other sub stations to be installed in some areas of Dar es Salaam and Coast region such as Ferry, Muhimbili, Mikocheni, Kibaha and the Dar es Salaam Rapid Bus Transit (Dart) terminal, ” added Eng Mramba. He said the ministry held talks with the President's Office – Regional Administration and Local Government (POLARG) to ensure all Dart buses in phase two and three are installed with a gas system. The PS who was representing Minister for Energy January Makamba said, this will help to reduce travelling costs for city residents who are using Dart buses. In another development, Mr Mramba said the government is taking a number of initiatives to attract more investors in the country's renewable energy sector. “Some of the initiatives include setting up convenient tariffs that will smoothen operation and at the same time providing affordable cost to end users,” he said. In the renewable energy sector, huge potential is in solar, geothermal and wind as well as biomass. Earlier, the Ambassador of Norway to Tanzania, Ms Elisabeth Jacobsen called for a need for strategic partnership between the government and private sector to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) number seven that aims to ensure access to affordable, reliable and modern energy for all. “Energy transition requires huge financial investments, and the government cannot be expected to carry the burden alone. As Tanzania has signalled that it is open for more investments, we are confident that financing gaps can be filled,” she said. Adding; “However, the private sector's willingness to invest requires a conducive and predictable business environment, we strongly expect these conditions will be met in Tanzania for economic wide low-carbon growth”.