THE Office of the Chief Government Statistician-Zanzibar (OCGSZ) has revealed the monthly data of the Gender Based Violence (GBV), indicating slight decrease of the recorded incidents. OCGSZ Head of Statistics Unit Ms Ramla Hassan Pandu, however said, there are still some cases dominated by sexual abuse of children. “The number of incidents decreased by decreased by 18.0 per cent from 100 cases in February to 82 cases in March this year. But despite the reduction, the social menace is still there, and the campaign to stop them must continue,” said Ms Pandu. She informed journalists at the media briefing held at the OCGSZ offices, Mazizini area that sexual violence against children, mainly rape and defilement still dominates as 69 of 82 cases involve children. Ms Pandu further said that 71 of the incidents were under police investigation, while the other 11 cases are at different stages of legal procedures, including at the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) and court of law. She also made comparison of the number of recorded incidents of GBV in March last year, which stood at 141 incidents compared to this year’s 82 incidents, representing a decrease of 41.8 per cent. Ms Pandu pointed out that the Unguja Magharib ‘A’ District led other areas of Zanzibar by having more GBV reported incidents (16), while Unguja South District had the lowest in March -- two incidents. Senior Officer from the Isles Ministry of Community Development, Gender and Children Ms Nasima Haji Chum was also present at the monthly media briefing. She called on parents to be close to their children and talk about sexual risks they face as one of the ways to protect them from abuse. “During festive season, children are more vulnerable to sexual abuses, we urge parents and members of the community at large, to be vigilant and also monitor their children's movements to avoid sexual violence against them,” Ms Chum emphasized. Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ramadhan Haji Iddi from the ‘Crime and Prosecution Unit’ at Zanzibar Police Headquarters, urged parents to ensure their children dress decently, as putting on cloths which expose their body contributes to abuse. He advised further that parents should discourage their children from begging or receiving gifts from strangers/or people they do not know on streets because such acts also provides a room for perpetrators to abuse tem.