SCIENTISTS who deal with history of the world and its inhabitants say that about 124 thousand years ago at the time which is called Pleistocene many plants and animals went through morphological changes. This process enabled them to adapt and survive in fast changing environments that included short unreliable rains, rise of temperature and dwindling size of tropical forest around the world. For adapting the environment of a planet that was on constant changes, animals evolved with sophisticated mechanism which enabled them to survive. These mechanisms included autonomic nervous system and enteric nervous system or intrinsic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system is a division of the peripheral nervous system that supplies smooth muscle and glands, and thus influences the function of internal organs. The autonomic nervous system is a control system that acts largely unconsciously and regulates bodily functions, such as the heart rate, respiratory rate, pupillary response, urination, sexual arousal and digestion. The enteric nervous system or intrinsic nervous system is one of the main divisions of the autonomic nervous system. The enteric nervous system is capable of operating independently of the brain and spinal cord, this unique ability has enabled it to be nicknamed the second brain. Going back to history, in order to live some plants had to go through adaptation process which enabled them to develop smaller leaves to reduce amount of water loss through evaporation. That did not stop because others plants produced harmful chemicals with bad smell but the Acacia tree of Savannah produced both small leaves and thorns which protected them against attacks from the growing numbers of antelopes and other herbivores who were feeding on it. Great number of savannah bovines changed the thorny tree from a source of food to the umbrella during the hot time of a day but ancestors of Elephant, Gerenuk and Giraffe developed a unique taste of leaves, flowers, fruits and even thorns of the Acacia. On their side, scientists say the history of evolution of plants on the Earth is very complicated but it is estimated that the earliest plant appeared about 1.2 billion years ago. This was an algal scum which dominated the planet until about 450 million years ago when the first land plant evolved and thrived following advancement of the ancient photosynthesis process. To survive in an ancient world which was experiencing low oxygen with big amount of carbon dioxide from volcanic activities, about 360 million years ago plants developed a mechanism which used stomata and adapted xylem and phloem vascular tissues. The development enabled them to spread into different ecosystems including arid and semi-arid lands where the savannah is available today. Giraffe is the tallest living terrestrial animal and the largest ruminant, this animal usually inhabits Savannahs and open woodlands where it likes to browse on the twigs of trees. Zoologists say the giraffe prefer trees of the subfamily acacia and consume about 34 kilogrammes of foliage daily and this is possible for them. As the giraffe is browsing on acacia trees one may ask you, how many brains do you have? If you answer “one” you are correct. Yet, there are other nervous systems in your body. There is one network of neurons which is so extensive that some scientists have referred to it as a “second brain.” It is the enteric nervous system and is located, not in your head, but mostly in your stomach. It takes an enormous amount of coordination and effort for the body to transform food into energy. Hence, it is fitting that the brain is designed to delegate, as it were, most digestive control to the enteric nervous system. Meanwhile, much simpler than the brain, the enteric nervous system is immensely complex. In mammals, it is made up of an estimated 200 to 600 million neurons built into the digestive system. To have a clear picture of how the enteric nervous system works let us see what happens inside the stomach of a giraffe after it eating different food materials. A Giraffe is ruminant and uses hours standing under the shed of a tree to unswallow half chewed food from rumen, the first chamber in a process called regurgitation. This is when cuds are brought back into the mouth to be crushed and grinded 40 to 60 times into smallest cuds and sent into the another chamber called recticulum. Inside the second chamber, bacteria such as protozoa, fungi and yeast work together like processing plant whereby the food is fermented to get special liquid which is digested to get important nutrients such as protein, sugar and starch. It’s in this chamber where dangerous objects such as thorns are sorted out into a safe place while the rest is pushed into the third chamber called omasum which digests nutrients from the whole mixture. From here, leftovers pass through much higher digestion process then pushed into the fourth chamber called abomasum. This function just like our stomach whereby the final digestion takes place and allows all nutrients to be absorbed into the body and the leftover is sent into the intestines. Scientists believe that if the function of the enteric nervous system were to take place in the brain, the needed nerves would be too thick. On their side researchers describes the digestive system as “a chemical workshop.” The sophistication of this chemical operation is mind confusing. For instance, among mammals the intestinal wall is lined with specialised cells that act as chemical detectors, or taste receptors, identifying chemicals present in the food they eat. Among mammals, food digestion requires a variety of very precise chemical mixtures produced at the right times and delivered to the right locations. Zoologists say this data helps the enteric nervous system to enlist the right digestive enzymes to break the food down into particles that the body can absorb. Also, the enteric nervous system plays a vital role in monitoring the acidity and other chemical properties of food particles and in adjusting the digestive enzymes accordingly. On the other side, think of the digestive tract as a factory line managed mostly by the enteric nervous system. Being the second brain it moves food through the digestive system by directing the muscles along the wall of the digestive track to contract. The enteric nervous system varies the strength and frequency of these muscle contractions as needed to make the system function like a line of conveyor belts. Scientists say the enteric nervous system also supervises safety functions inside the stomach of an individual in the wild. This takes place immediately after an individual swallows a food which is likely to contain potentially harmful bacteria. It is no wonder that about 70 to 80 per cent of mammal’s lymphocyte cells playing a vital component of immune defence system are housed inside the stomach. If a zebra, lion, leopard or an elephant ingests high levels of harmful organisms, the enteric nervous system protects the body by triggering powerful contractions that expel most of the toxic matter through vomiting or diarrhoea. Zoologists say while the enteric nervous system seems to function independently of the brain, these two nerve centres engage in constant communication. For example, the enteric nervous system plays a role in the regulation of hormones that tell the brain when an individual should eat and how much it should eat. The enteric nervous system nerve cells signal to the brain when a stomach is full and may possibly trigger nausea if an individual eats too much. Even before reading this article, you may have suspected that there is a communication link between your digestive tract and your brain. Have you noticed, for instance, that eating some fatty foods seems to improve your mood? Research suggests that among mammals in the savannah, this happens when their enteric nervous system sends special signals to brain, starting a chain reaction that makes them feel better after eating. This may explain why people tend to eat so called comfort food when feeling stressed. Scientists are exploring the possibility of artificially stimulating the enteric nervous system as a treatment for depression. Scientists say another example of communication between the brain and the digestive system takes place when the enteric nervous system diverts blood away from the stomach when the brain experiences tension or stress. Scientists define the stomach as a muscular, hollow organ among humans and many other animals, including several invertebrates. The stomach has a dilated structure and functions as a vital digestive organ. In the digestive system the stomach is involved in the second phase of digestion, following chewing. It performs a chemical breakdown by means of enzymes and hydrochloric acid. Among humans and many other animals, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. The stomach secretes digestive enzymes and gastric acid to aid in food digestion. The pyloric sphincter controls the passage of partially digested food from the stomach into the duodenum, where peristalsis takes over to move this through the rest of intestines. Scientists say the pyloric sphincter, or valve, is a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum. It controls the outflow of gastric contents into the duodenum. This process takes place as it receives sympathetic innervation from the celiac ganglion. Meanwhile the duodenum is the first section of the small intestine in higher vertebrates, including mammals, reptiles, and birds. In fish, the divisions of the small intestine are not as clear, and the terms anterior intestine or proximal intestine may be used instead of duodenum. In mammals the duodenum may be the principal site for iron absorption. Unlike the ruminants, elephants are members of herbivorous an anatomy group of animals who are adapted to eat plant materials. In a single day for 12 to 18 hours an elephant is capable of consuming up to 136 kilogrammes of food picked from 100 to 500 different species of plants in the tropical Savannah. From the mouth, digestion process start with the use of salivary gland which dilutes different chemicals obtained from the crushed materials. Then the food which may contain sharp thorns are engulfed into thick mucus which enable it to move smoothly through the esophagus to a cylindrical shape stomach which serve as a large storage capable of holding up to 300 kilogrammes. Then the food is pushed into extra ordinary long intestines which reach up to 19 meters where full digestion process takes place. Among elephants the process takes place at point called caecum which join the small and large intestine. This is where bacteria ferment and complete the whole process through small chambers which allow absorption to be done through its thin wall. Gerenuk, Giraffe and Elephant are capable to browse on the thorny Acacia tree because of the amount and the thick quality of their saliva capable to cover thorns and their sharp points. This ability was developed by their ancestors for adapting challenges of the Savannah. rstanslaus@yahoo.co