BIASHARA United Head coach Vivier Bahati has urged patience on poor performance stamped by the team in their recent matches. The coach has called the fans and the club’s management not to lose hope after a dismal performance in their last three matches as the team will bounce back to regain winning formula. Biashara United piled misery on Wednesday when they lost 1-0 away to Coastal Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. Biashara United have won only four, drawn eleven, lost eight matches as they remain glued to the 13th position on the Premier League table. Bahati has insisted the team will do wonders in their remaining seven games of the Premier League. Bahati, the former Azam coach, said their team is not well-positioned in the league standings after failing to win their last three games. "We have recently lost our match to Dodoma Jiji, Coastal Union and we have also drawn with Mtibwa Sugar and this is not a good sign," Bahati said. He said his players have not given up and they will continue fighting to ensure they win all remaining matches. Adding, Biashara United’s defender, Boniphace Maganga said he will use his vast experience to rescue the team while insisting on team work as the only weapon that can make them achieve their goal. He called upon the team's supporters not to give up despite their team's recent results. He urged them to continue supporting their players whenever they play in or outside the home arena. Biashara United are expected to play their Premier League match against Namungo at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza on Tuesday. After Namungo, Biashara United will travel to Moshi to face hosts Police Tanzania at Ushirika Stadium May 24th this year. After the match they will face Young Africans at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. After the match they will lock horns with Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba stadium in Kagera on June 14th this year and on June 18th, they will visit Geita Gold at Nyankumbu Stadium in Geita. Other matches will be against Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) at Nyamagana Stadium while their penultimate game of this season will be against Biashara United. They will end their league campaign against Azam FC at Azam complex stadium on 29th June.