ALL is set for the Kabaddi Friendship Cup to take Dar es Salaam by storm today. The day-long tournament jointly organised by Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) and the Indian High Commission is scheduled for a showdown at the India-Swami Viveka- nanda Cultural Centre in the city this morning. TKSA chairman Abdallah Nyoni confirmed on Saturday in Dar es Salaam that the venue is in immaculate shape to stage the Demeter Insurance Company-backed event. “Everything is in place, we expect to have a highly competitive event,” he said. He said the event is christened 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Friendship Cup. Nyoni said that the event is also an important platform for the young play- ers to showcase their skills. He said that five men and two women’s teams have already confirmed to participate in the event. He named the teams as Kaole Kabaddi from Bagamoyo in Coast Region and Buffalo Kabaddi club which will field both men and women’s teams. Others are Tanzania Private Security Intergrated Services (TPSIS) and Prisons who will feature in the men’s category. Meanwhile, Nyoni added that all is going well for the ongoing basic level course for the Kabaddi’s experts in Zanzibar. He said the course now going on at the Mao Zedong Stadium in Zanzibar is expected to wind up next week. The course is organised by the Kabaddi Sports As- sociation (TKSA) and sponsored by Zanzibar Revolutionary Government (SMZ) through Zanzibar National Sports Council (BAZA) and Demeter Insurance Company. Nyoni said the course involves sports teachers, some soldiers and other sports stakeholders. Participants, he said, put skills on kabaddi ven- ue preparation, practical on field courses and game playing techniques knowledge, the uses of symbols, decision-making and lawful coordination for referees. “The course is going well so far; it is open for ev- eryone. I want to take this opportunity also to ask other sponsors to come forward to sponsor Kabaddi training wherever they are. “We have a duty to promote and develop the game countrywide and courses like these are very important platform,” he said.