THE Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adolf Mkenda, has warned school teachers against video recording and sharing clips of pupils who give incorrect answers, saying the culprits risk facing legal measures. Prof Mkenda noted with concern that some teachers use their smartphones to video record students who give wrong answers in classrooms and distribute video clips on social media. The minister issued the warning during the opening of a training session for secondary school science teachers, held in Morogoro region where he told participants to convey the warning to their fellow teachers. Prof Mkenda reminded them not to go against teaching ethics and they must protect teachers' dignity. He said his ministry would take strong action against some teachers who have been tarnishing the image of the teaching profession by using smartphones and record some of the video clips that have been circulating on social media showing students answering questions incorrectly. "I warn anyone who is a school teacher not to ruin the image of a teacher because if you record a student and then distribute it on social media, you make the community think teachers have no morals which is not true," he stated. Prof Mkenda said the government has allocated 1.2bn/- for teachers’ training, noting that the exercise will be continuous. "We do not want teachers to be incapacitated since they are the ones who prepare future generations and all major reforms in the world cannot be done without education" he insisted. For his part, the Commissioner of Education in the Ministry of Education Science and Technology, Dr Lyabwene Mtahabwa, implored teachers to observe ethics at work as well as outside their work because they are always considered as the mirror of the society. Dr Mtahabwa said research shows that teachers are the most critical factor for quality education and have great impact on their society and country. He urged continuous learning among teachers, arguing that they’re supposed to be learning and listening to new things from others.