THE government has pledged to fully support Eight-Nation Cambiasso and Rainbow U-20 International Tournament scheduled to light up Dar es Salaam in July this year. The competition has attracted 11 teams from Africa and one team from Europe in the tournament whose venue is Azam Complex in the city. Tanzania will deploy seven Under-20 clubs which are Simba, Young Africans, Azam, Mtibwa Sugar, Cambiasso Sports, Coastal Union and Zanzibar Combine. Other envoys from Africa with their countries of origin in brackets are Academy Foot Douala (Cameroon), Aigle Noir (Burundi), Janza Soccer School (Zambia), KCC (Uganda), Kiyovu Sports (Rwanda) and Taifa Academy (Kenya). Europe will be represented by Montpellier HSC from France and their presence will help glorify the tournament. In his remarks at the launch of the tournament in Dar es Salaam, the Director of Sports in the Ministry for Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuph Singo hailed the management of Cambiasso for organising the international level tournament saying it will help to groom more talents. "This is a big tournament that will help us to embrace elite competitions and we expect to produce talented domestic players for them to go and play abroad. "As such; the government and all other stakeholders should support this programme to make it achieve its intended target. We highly appreciate it," Singo said. He added that currently, the database of Tanzania players who trade outside the country has got few players less than one hundred while countries like Nigeria have thousands of them trading outside their nation. "We cannot grow by locking ourselves hence we need our players to get exposure of playing in other decorated football leagues beyond the borders so that at the end, we can have a strong national team," he added. Moreover, Singo revealed that Tanzania is blessed with countless talented players saying the government will continue to render support where necessary to sharpen the talents for future use. Cambiasso Youth Academy is currently under the tutelage of Mecky Mexime, who is among the highly respected football coaches in the country. The academy, on several occasions, do play friendly matches with big clubs Simba and Young Africans.