VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango on Friday flew to Davos- Switzerland to attend the World Economic Forum (WEF 2022) to be held from 22 to 26 May 2022. Dr Mpango will attend the forum on behalf of President Samia Suluhu Hassan. A statement issued by the Vice-President’s office yesterday has it that while in Davos, Dr Mpango will also attend various forums on investment and trade. “He is also set to attend forums on defence and security, food security, environment as well as climate change,” read part of the statement. In attendance to the forum there will be various heads of state and government, representatives from various global organisations, institutions, companies as well as members of business councils. This year’s meeting is centered on the theme History at a Turning Point: Government Policies and Business Strategies. It happens at the most consequential geopolitical and geo-economic moment of the past three decades and against the backdrop of a once-in-a-century pandemic. The war in Ukraine and the resulting tragedy calls for global moral action. Leaders will address urgent humanitarian and security challenges as they simultaneously advance long-standing economic, environmental and societal priorities – all while reinforcing the foundations of a stable global system. Clarity of vision and unity of purpose will be crucial for making progress against the unprecedented complexity of a multipolar world. The meeting provides a unique environment in which to reconnect, exchange insights, gain fresh perspectives and advance solutions. The focus is on setting strategies for impact, building new frontiers, creating viable future scenarios and providing ambitious solutions to the world's biggest issues. Over the past two years, the World Economic Forum has strengthened its impact initiatives, which deal with issues ranging from Covid-19 and climate change to education as well as technology and energy governance. These include the Reskilling Revolution, an initiative to provide 1 billion people with better education, skills and jobs by 2030; an initiative on universal Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) metrics and disclosures to measure stakeholder capitalism; and the 1 trillion trees initiative aimed at protecting trees and forests and restore the planet’s ecosystems. More than 50 heads of state and government are expected to join, among the 300 governmental representatives, to share their vision for the world. Over 1,250 leaders from the private sector will be participating, along with nearly 100 Global Innovators and Technology Pioneers – the world’s most promising tech and business start-ups and scale-ups. Civil societies will be represented by more than 200 leaders from NGOs, social entrepreneurs, academia, labour organisations, faith-based and religious groups, and over 400 media leaders and reporting press. The Annual Meeting 2022 at Davos will also bring together younger generations, with 100 members of the Forum’s Global Shaper and Young Global Leader communities participating.