YOUNG Africans said they are  90   per cent sure of winning the Premier League at the end of the season, but  insist the battle is not yet over. The league leaders have intensified drills ahead of their next match against  Tanzania Prisons at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Monday which they take as key to the Promised Land. They will be searching to end the winless run after two consecutive barren draws thereby dropping four points from the targeted six points. Though still unbeaten in 22 games, they are aware that facing Tanzania Prisons is not an easy  business as the latter will put on a serious face after going down 1-0 in their previous match with Mbeya Kwanza. "Until now, we are over 90 per cent sure of winning the league title hence the plight of clinching it remains in our hands. It is just unfortunate that we failed to grab crucial points in our past match with Ruvu Shooting but on Monday, we need to produce a victory," said the club's Spokesperson Haji Manara in the city recently. He therefore called upon all Yanga fans  to come together and give the team required support in order to win all their remaining matches. "Here, I am not talking about finishing the season unbeaten but rather grabbing the league title. Losing, winning and draws are parts of the game and this should stick to people's minds that in football, three results are obvious," he said. According to him, traditional derby fatigue and the nature of Tanganyika Stadium pitch in Kigoma are reasons that made them fail to claim maximum points from Ruvu Shooting on the day.. However, at a post-match briefing, Yanga's Assistant Coach Cedric Kaze said they were not lucky on the day to emerge winners as they missed many golden chances in the both halves. "In the first half, we hit the post twice and in the second half, we also created several scoring opportunities of which we failed to utilise well. The nature of the pitch partly contributed to these results as it was not friendly for low balls," he said. He then tasked his charges to do much better in the next game to ensure that they collect maximum  points while insisting that their target of becoming the champions remain unchanged as they are better placed to achieve that.