WHILE implementation of the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP) from Uganda to Tanzania is taking shape, plans are afoot to construct a parallel pipeline to transport natural gas from Dar es Salaam to Kampala through the same passage, President Samia has revealed. Ms Samia, who returned to the country on Wednesday after a two-day state visit in Uganda at the invitation of his host President Yoweri Museveni, was upbeat that development of the gas pipeline will be realized. The Tanzania leader made the assurance on Tuesday during a Business Summit organised by the Private Sector Foundation of Uganda (PSFU). The two countries are presently implementing development of the 1,450 kilometres pipeline to transport crude oil from Hoima oil fields in Uganda to Tanga Port in Tanzania. The Business Summit was attended by government officials, business executives and industrialists from Tanzania and Uganda. It was aimed at strengthening the flow of trade and investments between the two neighbouring countries. Ms Samia pointed to the fact that development of the natural gas pipeline will be a significant step in cementing cooperation in the energy sector for both countries. “Implementation of the gas pipeline will be realized. We want it to go through more productive towns in Tanzania,” she assured the business community and government officials at the summit. Tanzania currently operates a 512-kilometres pipeline from natural gas fields in Mtwara to Dar es Salaam, whose construction was completed in 2015. The country uses natural gas to produce at least 60 per cent of electricity for the national grid. The energy is also used for production in industries and cooking for some areas. Tanzania has proven natural gas reserves of 57 trillion cubic feet in both onshore and offshore gas fields in the Indian Ocean. Apart from the proposed pipeline to Uganda, Tanzania also plans to establish a 30 billion US dollars Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant, which will place it among leading exporters of the energy in the region and globally. If all goes as planned, it is expected that extension of the pipeline to Uganda will cover roughly 400 kilometres from Dar es Salaam to the port city of Tanga from where it will follow the route of EACOP. Uganda looks forward to using natural gas from Tanzania to process its iron ore reserve which is estimated at 260 million tonnes, mostly found in south eastern regions. Speaking at the Business Summit, the Executive Chairman of the company, Dr Sikander Lalani, complained that his industry imports over 500 cubic tonnes of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) for processing of metal products. “Other industries require huge quantities of natural gas and LPG. We need a fast and reverse gas pipeline using the EACOP corridor,” Dr Lalani stated. Speaking before the meeting, the Executive Director of PSFU, Mr Steven Asiimwe, said the business summit was a stepping stone to streamlining trade relations between Uganda and Tanzania. “We intend to pursue issues like the lowering of road user charges for Ugandan trucks going through Tanzania, marine transport in Lake Victoria, railway logistics and opportunities on the EACOP,” he was quoted as saying. The two-day visit by President Samia to Uganda has yielded positive fruits by addressing some barriers to smooth flow of trade between the two countries. During a meeting between Presidents Samia and Museveni as well as high ranking government officials, the two countries agreed to reduce the charges for Uganda-bound cargo trucks from 500 US dollars to just 144 US dollars for the 1,485 kilometres covering Mutukula and Dar es Salaam. Tanzania serves as a gateway to the sea to its landlinked northern neighbours of Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda, mainly through the Dar es Salaam port. Through a communiqué issued after the meeting, Tanzania also allowed importation of 10,000 tonnes of sugar from Uganda to plug its production gap. The two leaders also witnessed signing of two Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) on the field of Development of the 400 kilovolt Masaka- Mwanza electricity transmission line and cooperation on defense and security.