THE battle for the NBC Premier League top-three continues to escalate as the  NBC Premier League clubs are fiercely battling for it to get a ticket to play in the CAF Confederation Cup next season. Geita Gold, Namungo  and Azam are the most serious contenders, though Geita Gold tactician Fredy Minziro insists the race for the three top slots is yet to take shape as the battle is still intense. The three teams that will complete the top three will have sealed a ticket to inter- CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup), a situation that makes the battle look tough and unpredictable. With the NBC Premier league in its 21st round, four teams are competing for the third position that will hand them a position to represent the country in next season's inter-clubs competition. Teams like Namungo, Azam, Geita, Mbeya City and Kagera Sugar all stand a good chance of finishing third. Speaking with ‘Daily News’ yesterday Minziro said they have the chance to finish third and get a chance to represent the country in the international tournament, but he admitted that the competition for the spot is very stiff. “There are five teams with a slim point margin and the quest of all teams to get that place is very high. “We will try to finish the third, but that will not be easy,” said Minziro. He said in the beginning they didn’t have that target as they were just promoted to the top flight, but now they have seen strong chances to finish third if they  win their remaining matches. “The competition is very high as Namungo, Azam, Kagera and Geita can finish third, but apart from that, the league fixtures are tight as within a week we are supposed to be playing two or three games. Minziro said their next league fixture  is against Kagera Sugar in Nyankumbu Stadium, Geita on Saturday, and the game is expected to be tough as they are both in the hunt for the top-three slot. Yanga still tops the NBC Premier league chart with 55   points, followed by their traditional rivals Simba with 43 points. Namungo are in the third position with 30 points, and Azam are fourth with 29, sharing points with Kagera Sugar; only goal differences separate them, and Azam has a one-game advantage. Mbeya City and Geita Gold are in sixth and seventh positions, with 28 points.