THE government is looking at alternatives to ease the cost of living that has been caused by the hike in fuel price, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said. He equally asked Tanzanians to continue being patient as the government is working on the matter, to ensure the challenge is addressed accordingly. A statement issued on Thursday by the Prime Minister’s Office has it that Mr Majaliwa made the statement on Wednesday evening during an emergency meeting he held to assess new fuel price. The meeting was held in Dar es Salaam, with an attendance of Minister of State Prime Minister’s Office Policy, Parliament and Coordination Mr George Simbachawene, Finance and Planning Minister Dr Mwigulu Nchemba and the Minister for Energy, January Makamba. “This meeting is held in response to instructions of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, who instructed the responsible dockets to come up with short and long-term solutions on the matter,” said Mr Majaliwa. According to him, the Ministry of Energy has started to look for alternative ways of ordering the fuel as well as reducing some deductions to contain price hike. “President Samia has seen the challenges that Tanzanians are facing as a result of increase of fuel price at the world market, that is why, she instructed us to look for solutions on the matter,” explained further the Premier. Expounding further, Mr Majaliwa said the government is working on advice from Members of Parliament on using alternative ways of importing fuel. “The process has started, there were 24 applicants and right now we have remained with six bidders that have been taken to the next step,” he noted, adding that the government is assessing the distribution capacity of the interested bidders. Other officials who attended the meeting were the Permanent Secretaries for the three ministries, Chief Executive Officers for Ewura, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and the Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (PBPA). Meanwhile, the National Assembly has given five days to the government to come up with a substantive short term strategy that seeks to cushion the skyrocketing fuel prices in the country. Parliament Speaker Dr Tulia Ackson issued the deadline after Members of Parliament debated the private motion tabled by Omary Kigua (CCM Kilindi), in which the MP raised serious concern on the fuel prices surge. “Last time Members of Parliament gave their thoughts towards this matter and we fully understand that the government has been working on it. We again ask the government to document all MPs’ contributions so that we can get the statement next Tuesday,” the Speaker asked the government. According to Dr Tulia, though the matter involves thorough scrutiny into the country’s fiscal and monetary policies, she believes there are measures that can be instituted on short term basis to address the situation. Tabling his motion before the august House on Thursday morning immediately after the Questions and Answers session, Mr Kigua called upon the Speaker to adjourn the ordinary Parliamentary itinerary, so that the House could dwell on the emergency matter affecting the country’s economy and people’s lives. He submitted that the continuous surge in fuel prices had detrimental effects to the national economy and people’s lives, calling upon the government to treat it as an emergency matter. “The relentless skyrocketing of fuel prices that we are now witnessing has sparked public outcry and uproar. We, as MPs, have the duty to speak on their behalf, including advising the government,” said the MP amid applause from fellow legislators. Joseph Musukuma (CCMGeita) said the matter needs government intervention as it was the case with Cashewnuts when buyers messed around with the produce. He urged the government to use its forex reserve to subsidise fuel prices before the situation gets out of hand. “When you hike fuel prices it brings spill over effects on everything.” Saimon Lusengekile (CCM-Busega) said the situation in the oil industry, especially the rising prices, must be treated as an emergency national issue that requires adhoc measures to address. Giving an example, the legislator said fuel prices surge has pushed up cement transportation cost. According to him, previously a tonne of cement was ferried from Tanga to Mwanza at the cost of 130,000/- but now the same amount of cement is transported between the two cities at the cost of 160,000/-. The legislator called upon the government to drop some charges imposed on fuel to bring the prices down. Joseph Mhagama (CCM Madaba) issued appalling calculations, saying between January 2021 and this month (May 2022) fuel prices have increased by 92 per cent, while between last month (April) and this month the prices have surged by 21 per cent. “Fuel plays an integral role in making the country safe (national security). It is also the economy of the country. Government intervention in this matter is of utmost importance,” he said. He suggested for removal of fuel levy and excise duty both of which contribute a total of 792/- to the price of a litre of petrol. Joseph Kakunda (CCM Sikonge) said it is high time the government emulated the measures instituted by Kenya government by subsidizing fuel prices. According to the legislator, Kenya subsidised fuel by between 850bn/- and 900bn/- . “Citizens want results now, meaning that this matter must be treated as an emergency,” he said.