SIMBA host Pamba of Mwanza at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in the quarter final match of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC ) whose results will decide if there is third Dar es Salaam Derby this season. If Simba manage to eliminate Pamba today they will automatically cruise into semis against their traditional rivals, Young Africans, thus making the match highly decisive. Football analysts forecasted a third derby as they strongly believe that Simba will easily breeze past Pamba, despite knowing Pamba are not pushovers. If it happens, then it will be the second consecutive time for the duo to face off in the ASFC as last season, they met in the final and Simba won 1-0. It was the Msimbazi Street Red's holding midfielder Taddeo Lwanga who headed home the winner in the dying minutes to give Simba the ASFC throne. Obviously, on paper, the hosts have a big advantage to sail through into the semis but on the pitch, football has cruel results sometimes as such; anything can happen in between. Lately, the Msimbazi Street  giants have had remarkable results at Benjamin Mkapa venue in all competitions and this season, they have not lost any game while playing at the 60,000 capacity arena which adds to their prospect of doing well. The return to form of their lethal striker, John Bocco, who has scored twice in their previous two matches, has given his side the required energy to see off Pamba even though they need to respect them. For Pamba, they have nothing to lose and putting that into consideration, they will try all sorts of ways to frustrate the holders at their home ground and if they excel, they will open a new chapter in ASFC history. For them, being the only Championship side to reach this far  is a credit and who knows they may  squeeze into the last-four package and possibly make it further into the final. After 28 championship matches, Pamba are placed 9th on the table with 36 points that give them another opportunity to fight for the top flight league promotion next season. The other ASFC semis  encounter will see Azam taking on Coastal Union at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha in a tense clash whose winner will also proceed to the finals. Both teams have equal chance to hit the semis stage but they need to put it all on the pitch to ensure that at the end of 90 minutes of play the real winner is known. After missing out an opportunity to challenge for the Premier League title, Azam are eyeing to end the 2021/22 campaign with new silverware.