SIMBA Head Coach Pablo Franco has described skipper John Bocco as the team's best striker in terms of finishing accuracy saying he always determines to score goals and steers his side to victory. The coach revealed that after his team’s hefty 4-1 victory over Ruvu Shooting at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Bocco who came as substitute  netted his first Premier League goal of this season. Bocco, the last season's top goal scorer, found his scoring form in the 82nd minute when he received a timely pass from  Yusuph Mhilu and pumped in from a close range with his left foot. Other goal contributors for Simba on the day were Kibu Denis (40th), Larry Bwalya (67th), and Hennock Inonga (85th) while Haruna Chanongo netted the consolation goal for Ruvu Shooting in the 83rd minute. It was a bright performance for the defending champions who before the win, faced a three-match win-less run in the league. "We know the quality of Bocco when finishing and it has been a tough season for him because pre-season preparations were not good and when I arrived here, the level of players was down and for these senior players, the situation was difficult. "And in the process, he got injured and the healing for him to regain his usual fitness took  long and with new coach plus new style of play, it was hard for him to cope. "When he recovered, before long, he picked another injury and had to undergo through the same long procedure hence making things difficult for him," said Pablo at a post-match media briefing. He continued: "When he is playing, he always shows the desire to do the best for the team and his ambition to score goals. He is our best striker in terms of finishing accuracy and he adds value to the team when playing." On championship race, the Spaniard said they are going to fight to the last drop since there are many matches to be played and that anything can happen on the way. His counterpart for Ruvu Shooting Boniface Mkwasa said  fatigue was key reason to the setback as they played two big matches in a short period. "As you know, on Thursday, we played against Young Africans and we used a lot of energy to contain them. We had a long trip to come here and had just two days of light training sessions before facing Simba. "In the first half, we managed to hold them but in the second half, we were overwhelmed that is why some of their players who had not scored for a long time, scored after giving them enough space to play," he said. With the setback, Ruvu Shooting remain plastered on 14th place with 22 points after 22 games just one point above the bottom-placed Mbeya Kwanza who have accumulated 21 points after 22 league assignments.