PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has said fuel price in Tanzania is much cheaper than in the other neighboring countries in the East African Community (EAC). She said the increase in fuel price is caused by the war between Russia and Ukraine, adding that the rise could also result into inflation. During an interview with a local television station, President Samia however, said the cost of living in Tanzania is still bearable in comparison to the situation in other countries. “People should be aware of the reason behind the hike in fuel price, these prices are set in the world market, let’s stick to the reality,” she said, noting that the price has also increased in the developed countries in- cluding the United States (US). “I was in the US recently, fuel prices there are higher than ours in Tanzania,” noted the Head of State. The war in Ukraine has caused major supply disrup- tions and led to historically higher prices of a number of commodities including oil. The price of Brent crude oil was projected to average 100 US dollars a barrel in 2022, a 42 per cent increase from 2021 and its highest level since 2013. According to analysts, the price of oil spiked to a fresh yearly high (130.50 US dollar a barrel) in March amid the dis- ruptions caused by the Russia- Ukraine war. Current market conditions may lead to higher crude prices as expectations for strong demand are met with indications of limited supply. The recent rally in the price of oil appears to have stalled ahead of the record high (147.27 US dollars a barrel) as the rapid rise dampens the outlook for consumption. However, recent data prints coming out of the US suggest demand will remain robust in 2022 amid a downward trend in crude inventories. According to the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura), prices for petrol, diesel and kerosene for this month have gone up to levels never recorded before in the local market. In Dar es Salaam, a litre of petrol has increased to 3,148/- up from 2,861/- whereas a l litre of diesel will go for 3,258/- from 2,692/- in April, while a litre of kerosene on the other hand is sold at 3,112/- from 2,682/-. This is a significant increase by 287/-, 566/-, and 430/- for petrol, diesel and kerosene, respectively. Speaking recently, a Commissioner of Petroleum and Gas in the Ministry of Energy, Mr Michael Mjinja said the fuel price pinch could have been worse if the nation had not been using the bulk procurement system. He said the use of petroleum bulk procurement system (BPS) implemented through the Petreum Bulk Procurement Agency (PBPA) has saved the nation from falling into the challenge of absolute lack of the commodity as has happened in some neigh- bouring countries. “Oil prices are still going up and there could be no stability soon but the sure thing here for us is that the supply is guaranteed, the existing oil is sufficient and will continue to be available as planned,” Mr Mjinja said when interviewed by a local television station. “We have this assurance because the system we use to incorporate this fuel allows us to have robust plans in line with the verification of all the necessary information about the situation,” the commissioner added. He said that prior to the introduction of the petroleum bulk procurement system, Tanzania was also facing the challenges of fuel shortages as the existing sys- tem provided an opportunity for traders to import fuel individually at a time that they deem appro- priate according to their needs. “The cost of importing fuel was very high, the cargo was being delivered by small ships, causing congestion at the port and vessels used to wait at outer anchorage for up to 40 days, something which did not guarantee the availability of the fuel,” said Mr Mjinja. He said the system did not provide assurance of price sta- bility as the Government was unable to monitor and determine the exact price of oil and transportation costs, but there was also no capacity to ensure the availability of fuel was in line with demand. According to Mr Mjinja, it was for this reason that the gov- ernment saw the need to establish a Petroleum Bulk Procurement System to protect the public from the impact of unsustainable prices as well as to ensure the nation is guaranteed access to the essen- tial energy. “Currently there are 39 wholesale oil companies each presenting their requirements and then the oil is imported in bulk, two months in advance to ensure there is no shortage. This helps the government know the needs and the amount we have,” added Mr Mjinja. For his part, the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura) Petroleum Business Manager, Ms Kemilembe Kafanabo noted that tenders for importation of petroleum products have been openly an- nounced to allow participation of all companies with capacity and criteria to import the fuel at a competitive price.