THE Ruling party—CCM Secretary General, Daniel Chongolo has tasked two ministries to fast track a plan to have subsidised fertiliser in the country in order to help more farmers to have access to the rare commodity. The CCM Secretary General issued the directive on Friday to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and Planning after his working tour of the fertiliser factory located at Nala industrial site in the outskirts of the capital city. The factory is being constructed by an investor from Burundi, Intracom, at the tune of 400bn/-, where upon completion the factory will have an annual capacity of producing a total of 600,000 tonnes of fertiliser and 300,000 tonnes of limestone. At the project site, Mr Chongolo directed the two ministries to expedite a plan for subsidised fertiliser. He noted with concern that recently President Samia Suluhu Hassan distributed working equipment to extension officers, where she purposely directed the Ministry of Finance and Planning and that of
Agriculture to make sure that the plan for subsidised fertiliser was fully implemented. The president, according to Mr Chongolo, said that the government had decided that there should be a robust plan to identify the demand of fertiliser as well as ensuring that the product is obtained at a subsidised price. Tanzania’s fertiliser demand stands at 700,000 tonnes. “To begin with, the Intracom company will produce 200,000 tonnes, therefore the government should put up proper plans to cover the remaining deficit,'' he said. According to the CCM Secretary General, during the last season there was a challenge in accessing fertiliser due to the impacts of Covid-19 pandemic, something which hiked the products, causing chaos to farmers. Speaking at the occasion, Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) Central Zone Manager, Abubakari Ndwata said the investment by Intracom Fertiliser Limited would be over 400bn/-, and that upon completion there will be about 3,000 direct employment. According to Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Anthony Mtaka, a lot of efforts in the regional authorities had been made to ensure that there is access to electricity and water at the project site, adding that plans were equally afoot to have a four-kilometre road going to the site. Earlier in January this year, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa visited the project where he reiterated the government’s full commitment to supporting investors in a continued effort to stimulate the economy and other development activities. “The government will continue to put a close eye on the construction of this factory to ensure the ambition of President Samia Suluhu Hassan on uplifting the agriculture sector is attained,” he said. He said President Samia’s decision to invite an investor who is constructing the fertiliser factory was done at the right time and it will have a significant impact on the growth of the agriculture sector. “This factory is going to address the major challenge of shortage of fertilisers facing farmers in the country. The availability of sufficient fertilisers will ensure an increase in harvests,” he noted.