THE ministry of Industries, Trade and Investment has tabled its 99.1bn/- budget for 2022/23 financial year, outlining key major priorities it expects to implement, among them, the implementation of the Bagamoyo Special Economic Zone (BSEZ) project. Tabling the next year’s budget, the Minister for Trade, Industry, and Investment, Dr Ashatu Kijaji said major focus was on flagship projects which are outlined in the 2020 CCM Manifesto and the government’s strategic plans. On the BSEZ, the minister said that during 2021/22, the government initiated fresh negotiations with investors China Merchants Holdings (International) Co Limited (CMHI) and Oman Investment Authority (OIA) previously referred to as State General Reserve Fund (SGRF). “The negotiations involved a small area of the project at the BSEZ for developing 3,087 hectares out of 9,887 hectares for the construction of a Sea Port and the logistics park within an area of 887 hectares as well as developing the portside Industrial City at an area of 2,200 hectares,’’ she noted. According to Dr Kijaji, the investment at the project site will be done by attracting shareholders in both the public and private sectors through (PPP), adding that investment could equally be done by a private investor. The minister further said other priorities were pegged on removing bureaucracies and bottlenecks that are frustrating investors and traders as well as strengthening participation of the private sector directly in the country’s economy and empowering Tanzanians economically. “Specific priorities will be intensifying coordination of awareness programmes for investment at local and international levels, coordinating all issues pertaining to economic empowerment as well as private sector development,’’ she said. During the 2022/2023 fiscal year, she insisted, the investment development sector would among other things accomplish the ongoing drafting of the policy, strategies and the investment legislation, as well as ensuring that its implementation kicks off immediately. “Others are establishment and development of mega investment projects which have a greater economic impact to the nation as well as coordinating programmes for strengthening systems that will reduce trade and investment costs,’’ she added. The industrial sector in the next financial year according to Dr Kijaji plans to complete the review of Sustainable Industries Development Policy (SIDP) and its Integrated Industrial Development Strategy (IIDS). Regarding the trade sector, the minister noted that through the business development sector, the ministry would in 2022/23 continue improving the business environment in the country. Others, Dr Kijaji said, include enticing the business community on available market opportunities which come as a result of different local, regional and international negotiations, coordinating activities of business officers countrywide as well as developing market infrastructures and forums, among others.