BOLT, ride-hailing services, said on Thursday it will continue with the country’s taxi services as usual following its earlier announcement last month to suspend operations. The intention to withdraw operations in Tanzania follows a 15 per cent fee service order that took effect in April introduced by Tanzania’s Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA). Bolt charges its partners a 20 per cent commission before LATRA chipped in to direct the Estonia-based ride-hailing company to reduce the package. However, after successful meetings with LATRA intended to discuss the matter, Bolt has reversed its decision while taking the issue forward for further resolutions. Bolt Regional Manager, East Africa, Kenneth Micah said in a statement, “From the meeting we have held, we would like to state that we have made great strides in solving this issue and look forward to a speedy resolution. “Bolt would like to reiterate that it is committed to continuing offering ride-hailing services in the Tanzanian market and creating entrepreneurial opportunities that enable more people to earn a sustainable living”. Bolt remain hopeful that their engagements with the relevant stakeholders including LATRA will yield a favourable review of regulations on the tariff and commission capping for ride-hailing companies to enable long term operations. Recently, LATRA reviewed the rates for ride-hailing companies, including the maximum distance—per kilometre—rate and commission. In the new directives, LATRA requires ride-hailing companies to reduce the “dead kilometres” — the distance drivers are expected to cover to pick up a passenger, and to provide a platform where drivers can be “heard” when pasengers lodge complaints. The authority also doubled the per-kilometre rate for ride hailing companies from 450/- to 900/- due to increasing fuel prices, and set a minimum fare too. Bolt, which has operations in seven markets in Africa, including Kenya, South Africa, Uganda, Ghana and Nigeria, said switching off its service in mainland Tanzania would affect more than 10,000 drivers. In Tanzania, Bolt offers affordable ride option in Arusha, Mwanza and Dodoma, targeting passengers seeking low budget e-taxi. Another firm, Uber, which charges a 25 per cent commission, suspended its operations in the country late last month over the same issue, but said it would resume business in the East African country if the terms became favourable. Bolt has more than 30 million clients in over 35 countries across Europe and Africa, whose services range from ride-hailing to micro-mobility with e-scooters and electric bikes to food and package delivery.