THE newly sworn-in East African Court of Justice (EACJ) Deputy Registrar Christine Mutimura-Wekesa has pledged to get down to business, saying she would assist the judges in ensuring smooth running of the regional court. To start with, the Rwandan lawyer who took judicial oath during a special session held at the EACJ Appellate Division Courtroom at the EAC Headquarters last Friday, said her focus will be on mobilising staff of the Arusha-based court and unifying them in order to enhance efficiency of the court. While acknowledging challenges that lie ahead as she begins her tour of duty, the Deputy Registrar who once served in the EAC Secretariat as Senior Legal Officer of the Counsel to the Community and the principal legal adviser to the Community, said she was ready to confront the challenges which also include lobbying partner states to ensure the court realises its mission. “I’ll try to convince the partner states that we need judges to be permanent for this court to be able to effectively undertake its mandate. So my role is actually bringing partner states on board,” she said. Ms Mutimura takes office at a crucial time when the EACJ doesn’t have a Registrar after the former office occupant- Yufnalis Okubo, retired from the position on March 31, 2022 at the age of 60 years. She fills up the vacancy after the EACJ went over three years without having a Deputy Registrar. “I don't think so because my role is really to deputise the registrar, so I basically do what the registrar does…and I think I’ll be up to the task even in his absence,” asserted the Deputy Registrar, when asked if she was ready for the job ahead. Rule 8(2) of the EACJ Rules of Procedure allows the Registrar to delegate their functions to a Deputy Registrar, meaning that Mutimura will be stepping in to fulfill these responsibilities as the EAC recruitment process for the Registrar remains vacant and currently underway. Fielding questions from reporters, EACJ President Justice Nestor Kayobera admitted that such a vacuum was affecting and derailing the Court. He said: “It is somewhat affecting our operations and we hereby appeal to the Council of Ministers to submit to us the right person to fill the vacancy.” In the same vein, Justice Kayobera maintained that EACJ was an independent organ of the community and not an EAC department as it is widely perceived. He equally called for maintenance of team work, judicial diplomacy and good faith in dispensing justice in the region. The Judge further insisted that the Court would uphold its independence while serving East Africans by ensuring adherence to law in the interpretation and application of and compliance with the EAC Treaty.