THE Former French star David Trezeguet is expected to land in the country courtesy of the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour on May 31st this year, a tour that will enable Tanzanians to see the golden trophy for the fourth time. The tour is facilitated by CocaCola in collaboration with FIFA and Tanzania is among the eight African countries selected to host the tour. Speaking in the city on Thursday about the tour, the Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa hailed a massive support rendered by Coca-Cola in promoting football and added that the government will continue to work closely with them. "The World Cup is the biggest event on earth, keenly followed by many people worldwide and for us to host the tour, it is a big opportunity that also enhances football and promotes good cooperation. "To be included in this tour, we need to give ourselves a big acknowledgement because it is an honour which has been presented to us by FIFA, showing that they are touched with what we are doing in this sector," he said. He then urged Tanzanians to turn up when the throne lands in the country on May 31st so that the world should know that the country is a sport loving country and that all procedures to accord it are in place. Moreover, Mchengerwa noted the sixth phase presidency under Samia Suluhu Hassan had already shown strong determination to fast track the development of sports and that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Furthermore, he assured CocaCola on the government's commitment to work with them in order to foster the development of the beautiful game. Earlier, Coca-Cola Kwanza Managing Director Unguu Sulay said they are thrilled to bring the real World Cup trophy to Tanzania after almost eight years and thisis a big honour. "This brings a good reputation for the country because the whole world will be watching us to see how we are going to accord this great tour. "It is not a hidden fact that the sports sector is among the leading employment providers in the country. That is why we are happy to venture into this area because many people are benefiting a lot from it," Sulay said. He added that the tour comes at the best moment when Tanzania is cherishing the Royal Tour initiative championed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan for the sake of accelerating tourism hence the two things are vital. Also, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) president Wallace Karia admitted that Coca-Cola is doing a lot to keep the football sector moving as they always work together with the federation. "We still have many projects that need to be financed and I would like to take this opportunity to urge Coca-Cola to give us the much needed support to implement them well," he narrated. According to the available schedule, when the trophy arrives on May 31st, it will be taken to the State House where President Samia, who is the only authorised person to touch it, will have the opportunity to hold it on behalf of millions of Tanzanians. On June 1st, the trophy will be sheltered at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam where sports fans will have an opportunity to take photos with it thereby completing its two-day tour.