THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal lodged by two poachers, Jamali Msombe and Nicholaus Bilali, alias Myovela who were each sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for unlawful possession of four pieces of elephant tusk, which are government trophies. Justices Shaban Lila, Ignas Kitusi and Abrahaman Mwampashi ruled against the poachers, the appellants, after holding that the case against them was proved to the hilt by the prosecution during the trial. “We find that the appeal lacks merit and we accordingly dismiss it in its entirety,” they declared. According to them, Msombe admitted in his defence evidence before the trial court that he is the one who took the four pieces of elephant tusks to a room in a certain guest house where the same were retrieved by a game officer and his team during the search that was conducted therein. “In his admission, (Msombe) also named (Bilali) as his partner, the evidence which was corroborated by the evidence from (two other prosecution witnesses),” the justices said. During hearing of appeal, the appellants had complained, among others, that the room where the trophies were found was searched without a warrant. Having examined the record of appeal, the justices noted there was no evidence that the searching team was equipped by a search warrant. However, having carefully examined the evidence on record, they were of a considered view that under the circumstances of the case the fact that the room was searched without a search warrant could not vitiate the conviction of the appellants. “The reason pushing us to the conclusion is that, under the circumstances of this case, the procedural flaws in searching (the) room without a search warrant is not fatal, in the fact that the search was done in the presence (of Msombe),” they said. Besides that, the justices said, Msombe admitted that the four pieces of elephant tusks in question were taken therein by him and that they were found in the room. “We are of the view that such a procedural flaw is rendered irrelevant when it is not disputed by (Msombe) that the tusks were taken into (the) room by him before being found therein in his presence,” they said. As to the complaint that the burden of proof was shifted to the appellants, the justices could not agree with them and the prosecution that there was any part in the trial court’s judgment, where it could even be inferred that the burden was shifted to the appellants. They revisited a part of the trial court judgment referred to by the prosecution and the appellants to support their position and observed no any indication that the burden was shifted to the appellants. “At that part of the trial court judgment, the trial magistrate evaluated the defence evidence and disagreed with (Msombe) that he took the bag to (the) room not knowing what was in the bag. The trial court found it illogical (he) could have carried the bag therein without knowing its content,” they said. Likewise, the justices noted, the defence by Bilali disassociating himself from the offence, was rejected by the trial court basing on the evidence given by Msombe and other two prosecution witnesses that linked him to the offence. They also found with no merit the complaint that there was no enough evidence to connect Bilali with the offence. The justices found that the evidence tendered by one prosecution witness, who is a brother with Msombe was not only straight and not shaken, but was also well corroborated by Msombe. In his defence evidence, Msombe had told the trial court that he called his brother and asked him to take the bag containing the tusks from Bilali to the Guest House. “It is our observation that from the evidence on record the mere fact that (Bilali)was not arrested in actual possession of the tusks as it was for (Msombe), does not save him from the crime in question,” the justices said. They further noted that there was sufficient evidence from prosecution witnesses and Msombe tightly connecting Bilali to the offence. The justices recalled from the evidence of a motor cycle hire business rider, commonly known as “Bodaboda”, who told the trial court how on January 19, 2017 gave the appellants a ride to Kidamali. He also testified that the two had in their possession a bag though he did not know its contents. There was also evidence from the brother with Msombe that on the same day, Bilali handed to him the bag at Transformer Semtema so that he takes it to Msombe who was at the guest house waiting for the bag in question. “The most disastrous evidence against (Bilali) came from (Msombe who) did not only admit to have been found in possession of the tusks but named (Bilali) as his partner. The admission by (Msombe) which was made on oath was best evidence not only against him but against Bilali too,” the justices said. It was alleged by prosecution that on January 19, 2017 at Frelimo area within the District and Region of Iringa, the appellants were found in possession of four pieces of elephant tusks valued at 33,435,000/-, the property of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, without any permit or license.