IT is a little known crop to many, but vanilla spice earns a lot of money to growers in Pemba Island if they adhere to agricultural standards and conduct organic farming. The crop that needs constant attention and planted under tree covers, attracts up to one million shillings per kilogramme, although the price fell following the Covid-19 pandemic that hit the world including the Isles. Speaking to journalists on a field trip that was coordinated by the Journalists’ Environmental Association of Tanzania (JET) and spon- sored by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) some growers expressed optimism that the crop will spearhead their progress. Members of MATAKA Spices Group said they initiated the group way back in 1992 with 12 members and now engaged 28 participants with an acre farm, that they develop with vanilla as well as keeping up trees, adding that their economic situation is better than the years ago. One of the founding members, Mr Mohammed Ali Mmanga said in the past they did not know how best to treat vanilla crop, but were later supported by the government and other agencies to take care of it. “We were in difficult situation economically, but the crop has helped us through. We get a huge profit because the price of a well-treated vanilla is between 900,000/- to 1,000,000/- per kilogramme, although after the outbreak of Covid-19 the price fell to 500,000/-, but now we hope for the best and keep growing the crop,” said Mr Mmanga. He noted that the Pemba vanilla is unique in its flavour because of the way they grow it naturally, without any kind of chemical. There is already a special laboratory set up in the Isles for testing the harvest, before it is exported to make sure it meets international standards. Mr Mmanga said there are challenges, because the growers have to be dedicated all the time for the crop service in forestry cultivation, adding that the crop needs trees to use as its support. Its gestation period is about one and a half to three years and now Zanzibar is looking forward to value addition of the crop.