THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) is soon expected to kick off its operations in Kampala, Uganda with its Director General, Mr Eric Hamissi saying the land-linked East African nation is of enormous economic potential for Tanzania through provision of port services. “Efforts are being undertaken to improve consignments destined to and from Uganda through our two ports of Dar es Salaam and Mwanza,” Mr Hamissi said on Wednesday during President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s tour of Uganda. The TPA has set up a liaison office in Kampala, Uganda as the Authority continues to enhance its operations and trade facilitation across the East African region. Speaking during the tour, President Samia reiterated Tanzania’s readiness to cooperate with private sector players from Uganda in boosting trade between the two countries, underlining that Tanzania’s ports play a crucial role in increasing the cargo volume. The President made the assurance during a visit at Roofing Group industry which is located within the Namanve Industrial Park on the outskirts of Kampala. Ms Samia welcomed the company to invest in Tanzania. For his part, the Executive Chairman of Roofing Group, Dr Sikander Lalani, thanked Tanzania for enabling the company to import raw materials and export finished products through Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mwanza ports. Dr Lalani was particularly grateful to TPA, Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL), among other institutions for good customer services. The Kampala office becomes TPA's fifth liaison office to be established outside the country, with the aim of facilitating port operations and trade in land-linked countries in east and southern African regions. With similar offices in Rwanda, Burundi, DRC, Zambia, the new Kampala office is envisaged to facilitate transportation of goods and services between Uganda and the rest of the world through Tanzania's principal port of Dar es Salaam. Notably, TPA’s presence in Kampala is envisaged to fast track the transportation of goods and services for the new crude oil pipeline and also ease the cost of doing business between the two East African countries. “With our new office in Kampala, we’re further streamlining our port operations and enhancing customer’s support to our stakeholders in Uganda,” TPA’s Acting Marketing and Public Relations Director, Nicodemus Mushi remarked yesterday, noting that everything was in place for the Kampala office to go operational, including the appointment of a Country Manager. He added: “We already have liaison offices in Kigali (Rwanda), Bujumbura (Burundi), Lubumbashi (DRC), and Lusaka (Zambia), and we’re working closely with our embassies in those countries to promote economic diplomacy,” “Most of our ambassadors’ activities are linked to port operations and logistics. While our envoys abroad are pursuing economic diplomacy, the TPA plays the role of transport, logistics and trade facilitation,” he stated, revealing that the next liaison office will be set up in Malawi. The decision to set up the TPA’s offices in Kampala was reached during Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni’s three-day State Visit to Tanzania last year. During the tour, the Ugandan leader also toured the Port of Dar es Salaam. President Samia Suluhu Hassan and the visiting President Museveni concurred that the Kampala office would be vital in clearing equipment for building the East African crude oil pipeline from the Port of Dar es Salaam. Mr Mushi said the Dar es Salaam port is a very important point of entry and exit for goods to and from Uganda, adding that the new office will see the TPA strengthening its commitment in one of its key markets in the East African region. In recent years, Tanzania and Ugandan governments have made huge efforts to improve infrastructure along the central corridor to expedite haulage of exports and imports from and to Uganda through Dar es Salaam Port, Mwanza and Port Bell across Lake Victoria. As part of the deliberate measures to exploit Lake Victoria potential, TPA has invested in the rehabilitation of Mwanza South, specialized to serve cargo ships and Mwanza North ports, dedicated to passenger operations. Consequently, there have been significant improvements at Mwanza Ports in streamlining the Dar es Salaam and Uganda Corridor, facilitating the trade between Tanzania, Uganda, and South Sudan. Such improvements have led to the cargo transportation from Dar es Salaam to Uganda shifting from truck to rail, thus reducing the cost of doing business among traders. The rehabilitation of Mwanza South Port involved the reviving of the linkspan to enable containerised cargo to be transported to Port Bell in Uganda and other destinations in the region by ferry wagons. The North Port terminal has liquid/oil reception facility and is well connected with road and railway enhanced by linkspan that enables train wagons to be easily ferried or loaded to a ship. The Dar es Salaam Port-Mwanza - Port Bell is the most reliable and low-cost route. Mr Mushi says the TPA is working closely with the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) to lay proper infrastructure for transporting goods and services to and from Uganda. “The sixth phase government's emphasis is that we should increase the traffic of Uganda's cargo passing through our ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mwanza and we are implementing the government’s directives and ensuring we tap into the Ugandan market and promote mutual economic growth," touted the TPA Marketing and Public Relations Director, Mushi. Uganda's cargo through the Dar es Salaam port increased to 191,282 metric tonnes in the year 2020/2021, up from 140,269 metric tonnes recorded in the preceding year. The positive trend is expected to continue with the effects of the Covid-19 waning across the globe, while economies steadily recovering. TPA statistics show that the Uganda cargo volume via the Dar es Salaam port was 239,953 metric tonnes in 2016/2017. The traffic dropped to 215,878 tonnes and 167,270 in 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 respectively. In a major boost to trade relations between Tanzania and Uganda, the two countries signed an agreement for the construction of a 1,445 km (898 miles) crude oil pipeline in September, 2020. The $3.5bn project, already underway, will connect Uganda's oil fields to Tanzania's port of Tanga.