KYERWA District Commissioner (DC), Mr Rashid Mwaimu has appealed to parents and guardians to take a holistic approach against out-dated beliefs on “nylon teeth” and report early to nearest health facilities for treatment. Mr Mwaimu told the “Daily News” in an interview that the ‘nylon teeth’ myth was deep rooted among the area residents thus a need for joint effort to educate communities. “We recently launched a 12-days sensitisation programme targeting various groups aimed at educating people on the dangers posed by such beliefs. The campaign will be conducted in 24 Wards involving 1083 households,” he said. He explained that the ‘nylon teeth’ myth still exists in Tanzania, while some people believe in the myth and that it is necessary to treat the condition mainly by traditional healers to prevent death. Mr Mwaimu listed the 12 top leading regions in the ‘nylon teeth’ myth to include Arusha, Mbeya, Dodoma, Kagera, Mara, Manyara, Katavi, Morogoro, Iringa, Njombe, Singida and Tabora. Elaborating, he said ‘Nylon teeth’ myth is a belief of associating infant illnesses with bulges on infants’ alveolus that mark the positions of underlying developing teeth, especially canines. The commonest illnesses associated with the myth include repeated or long standing diarrhoea, fevers, difficult sucking milk from mother’s breast and itching in the mouth. The traditional treatment often leads to serious complications that may lead to infant death, he said. The DC clarified that gouging of the tooth germs is conducted by unprofessional people using crude instruments, and in most cases under unhygienic conditions. “The immediate consequences of this form of treatment include delayed or even denial of proper management of the underlying cause of the infant illness in question, excessive uncontrolled bleeding leading to anaemia, introduction of infectious agents into the wounds that may lead to septicaemia, meningitis, osteomyelitis and tetanus. These conditions are in most cases fatal,” he warned. The later consequences are mainly missing primary teeth corresponding to the tooth germs that were removed or gouged, malformed teeth if the tooth germs were partially removed and or hypoplasia of the permanent teeth if their tooth germs were traumatised during the process of gouging. In spite of government efforts to educate communities against ‘nylon teeth’ myth in the 1980s and 1990s, to-date, reports from different areas in the country indicate continued existence of the myth.