NINE senior officers with two SGS companies are at risk of being taken to prison if they will not pay over 67bn/- to VIP Engineering and Marketing Limited for negligently shipping in substandard rice in 1998. In the notice for substituted service by publication issued last week, the High Court’s Commercial Division ordered the officers to show up without failure on May 20, 2022 and provide reasons why they should not be imprisoned as civil prisoners for failure to pay the amount in question. Such officers, currently Directors, Managers and Principal Officers with Societe Generale De Surveillance (S.A) and SGS (Tanzania) Superintendent Limited are Benedict Karuho, Harry Freake, Andrew Colins, Craig Wilson, Samuel Gyan, Jean Marie Hellen, Carla Geyseleer, Kwok Wang Ng and Jean Bonvin. “This is to give you notice that you are ordered to appear before this court on May 20, 2022 to show cause why you should not be committed to civil prison in execution of (court) decree for failure to pay 75, 533,333/32 and 29,483,258.573 US dollars and plus interests,” reads part of the notice. Initially, the said officers were served with a notice to appear before the Court on April 24, 2022, but could not show up, thus forcing the matter to be adjourned to April 29, 2022. It was at that point when the counsel for VIP sought and obtained the order for the substituted service by publication. Recently, Judge Cyprian Mkeha, who is hearing the matter, granted in part the application lodged by the VIP Company, seeking for orders to lift the corporate veils of Societe Generale De Surveillance (S.A) and SGS (Tanzania) Superintendent Limited, who are judgment debtors. He also granted an order that the court decree dated July 15, 2016 be enforced and executed against all the nine current Directors, Managers and Principal Officers of the two SGS Companies. Judge Mkeha took into consideration the affidavit submitted by counsel for the local company, Mr Michael Ngalo, stating that the decree holder’s efforts to trace and ascertain existence of any movable or immovable assets owned by the judgment debtors within the country have not been successful. The seasoned lawyer, who was assisted by the youthful and upcoming Advocate John Chuma in urging the application, stated in the affidavit to support the application that neither has the VIP Company nor the decree holder had been able to trace any bank account maintained by any of the judgment debtors. He stated that the Directors, Managers and or Principal Officers of the judgment debtors must have hatched up a scheme to hide and conceal identities of their assets, including Bank accounts for purposes of avoiding execution and satisfaction of the decree of the court dated July 25, 2016. In his counter affidavit, the counsel for the two companies, the judgment debtors, Mr Seni Malimi, had generally disputed the claims, stating that the applicant company (VIP Company) jumped into the mode of execution sought without satisfying the legal requirements for it. He attempted to challenge the application because of irregularities noted by the Court of Appeal on the judgment and decree that the same was undated and unsigned. In his ruling, however, the judge pointed out that the decree accompanying the application is dated and signed. He said that even if the assertion was still true, it would not necessarily mean that the decree would be unenforceable. “The correctness and validity of the decree cannot be challenged before the executing court serve where the decree is a nullity which is not the case in these execution proceedings,” the judge said. Filing of the execution proceedings comes after the court, under successor Judge Jacobs Mwambegele delivered the judgment on behalf of trial Judge Nathalia Kimaro, holding that VIP proved its case against the two foreign companies on the balance of probabilities. The judge ruled that SGS (S.A) had a duty under the contract relating to supply of several tonnes of rice imported from abroad to take all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative measures all with objective of carrying out the terms and conditions on the importation by VIP of the rice in 1998. He said that there was evidence adduced by Mr James Rugemalira that the plaintiff paid for pre-shipment inspection fees as per contract but the defendants knowing that no inspection was carried out at all, issued a clear report of finding to signify that the goods imported matched required specification. The judge noted that while the contract had a provision for destination inspection in circumstances where pre-shipment was not done, the defendants refused to carry out inspection as requested by VIP although they were aware that the ship carried rice which had not met the specifications.