FACTS stand that the practices of modern poultry keeping can improve the livelihoods of Tanzanians through the generation of more income, resulting from the reduction of production costs coupled with higher yields of produces. In this due course the Kukua na Kuku Impact Cluster in cooperation with the Kilacha Agriculture and Livestock Training Centre (KALTC) situated at Himo, Moshi district in Kilimanjaro region have staged and conducted a 40-day training to a total of 18 Trainers of Trainers (ToT) on how to put into practice modern poultry up keeping, all aiming at the improvement of livelihoods of poultry keepers through reductions of production costs(vaccines, medicines and drugs) while producing more of both broilers and layers types of chickens. The Kukua na Kuku Impact Cluster incorporated seven (7) Dutch companies who together brought knowledge, equipment and expertise to Tanzanians through a series of trainings that took place at KALTC. The impact cluster is coordinated by the Netherlands Africa Business Council (NABC). At the end of the trainings, the ToTs were handed certificates in honor of their accomplishments. Officiating at the graduation of these ToT in a short event held at KALTC premises on Thursday 26th May this year was the Deputy Ambassador of the Kingdom of The Netherlands in Tanzania, Mr Job Runhaar who presented certificates to the ToT graduates. The deputy ambassador also cut a tape to mark the opening of Kukua na Kuku Poultry Training Farm buildings for both layers and broilers chickens. This training farm house modern Dutch poultry keeping equipment and promotes techniques and demonstrations. Mr  Runhaar thanked and paid tributes to the organizers of the training, calling upon the graduates to make well use of what they have learnt while not resisting disseminating the same to poultry keepers across the country adding that in so doing the livelihood of Tanzanians involved in poultry will be improved. He paid special tributes to the NABC for supporting such an initiative promising that his country will keep on supporting Tanzanians in various economic activities aiming at improving livelihoods through more income generation projects. On his side a poultry expert from NABC, Mr Jan Hulzebosch said the same have been a three years project at KALTC, promising that this is not the end of his council’s assistance to the country. Talking on what NABC offers, he named four types of assistance as organizing trade missions to over 45 African countries in the past five years, strengthening of sector platforms, organizing networking events and conferences such as ‘Africa Works’ and conducting of market researches of produces from Africa. KALTC General Manager, Father Jerome Silayo said such a training witnessed the ToTs through their practical training interacting with a total of seven hundred (700) poultry keepers in Kilimanjaro region whereby they disseminate what they have learned on how to improve the production of both broilers and layers chickens. “Through such an interaction of ToT and poultry keepers modern poultry keeping methods was disseminated which aimed at reducing production costs through minimizing the use of vaccines drugs and medicines to chickens while increasing yields and income to be generated” he said. Giving a vote of thanks in this event was the Vice Principal of KALTC, Mrs. BahatiHamaro who extended her sincere gratitude to the Deputy Ambassador, NABC, and all cluster companies from Netherlands all for their assistance's in making the dream of hosting such a training of ToT came into reality. She said to the best of her knowledge and what she had witnessed during the said training for sure the livelihood of poultry keepers across the country will be improved if such modern poultry keeping methods will be disseminated to them.