PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan on Thursday met and held talks with the visiting Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Ms Patricia Scotland, and her delegation who are in Tanzania for an official visit. After the meeting in Zanzibar, Ms Scotland, who arrived in the country earlier on the day, handed the Charter of the Commonwealth to President Samia. During the visit, the Commonwealth’s top executive will conduct bilateral meetings with several senior government officials in Tanzania. Upon her arrival, Ms Scotland was received by Tanzania’s Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Amb Liberata Mulamula. During the meeting with the minister, Ms Scotland remarked; “I am so glad to be back in Tanzania, a country I hold close to my heart. “I am also very much looking forward to my first meeting with President Samia on discussing crucial issues such as next month’s Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM 2022) and the blue economy,” she remarked. Ms Scotland mentioned other areas of discussions with the Tanzania leader as revitalising tourism, Covid-19 recovery, and climate change in addition to the cost-of-living crisis, youths, health and more Amb Mulamula thanked Ms Scotland and commended her for the work that she has been doing for the secretariat and Commonwealth member states. Tanzania joined the Commonwealth in the year 1961 and through the secretariat of the association, the country has benefited through a number of projects in trade, countering violent extremism, access to justice and management of natural resources and debt management, among others. Before her visit in Tanzania, the Commonwealth top official also visited Rwanda and Kenya ahead of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM 2022) to be held in Kigali between June 20 and 25, this year. Media reports from Rwanda quoted Ms Scotland as saying that over half of the association’s 54 member countries have confirmed attendance for the meeting which is held after two years on rotation basis amongst its members. Ms Scotland has been in Rwanda since May 2, this year, where she also attended the 12th Regional Conference of Heads of Anti-corruption agencies in Commonwealth Africa. The previous CHOGM took place in 2018 in London, United Kingdom but was suspended in June 2020 amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been a great disappointment, because of the Coivid-19 pandemic, which has taken almost a million of our citizens across the Commonwealth. We have had to delay CHOGM until June this year,” Ms Scotland was quoted as saying. The Commonwealth is home to about 2.5 billion people, and includes both advanced economies and developing countries from across different continents around the globe. Meanwhile, President Samia has sent condolences to Head Bishop of the Moravian Church of Tanzania, Conrad Nguvumali, following the death of former Bishop of Lake Tanganyika Province of the church, Charles Katale. Through her twitter account, Ms Samia said she has been saddened by the death of Bishop Katale and sent condolences to the Head Bishop of the church, family, believers and friends of the fallen cleric, stating; “May the Almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace, Amen.”