THE Institute of Justice Administration (IJA) is effectively utilizing Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in conducting capacity building training among judiciary workers digitally. The institute uses online system to train different judiciary workers in the country. The move is aimed at offering training to judiciary staff where they are regardless of distance and relieve them from travelling to Tanga region where the institute is located for training. "IJA has been at the forefront in pioneering an online system for conducting lectures, short courses and other materials using an online system. Over 1,500 staff from remote locations have so far benefited. This move has been warmly received by the government. You should move forward and reach more workers,” said Ms Mary Makondo, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs. The permanent secretary made the remarks in Dar es Salaam on Thursday when she was officially opening the IJA workers’ council. She said that the IJA’s initiative was in line with the pace of the industrial revolution which depends largely on ICTs and artificial intelligence, whereby the judiciary of Tanzania is speeding up  its role of dispensing justice by embracing modern technology. "I therefore call upon the IJA to run more courses through an online system, to invest more in research and consultancy so as to address various challenges facing the society and also raise its revenues by collecting money from professional services," she said. Eerier, the director of finance and planning from the Judiciary of Tanzania, Mr Erasmus Uiso, told the permanent secretary that his office was committed to supporting the IJA to strengthen its capacity in conducting short and long courses with the focus on improving legal services in the country Mr Uiso, who was speaking on behalf of the Chief Court Administrator, assured the IJA of a support for increasing its budget for it to continue playing its role in shaping judiciary workers' mindsets.