WITHIN her one year in office, President Samia Suluhu Hassan has managed to promote human rights in all aspects, Minister for Constitution and Legal Affairs Dr Damas Ndumbaro has said. He   disclosed the achievements on Friday during an event to mark 10th Anniversary of the Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition (THRDC). President Samia was the chief guest at the event. Dr Ndumbaro said President Samia has successfully managed to promote rights to education, right to life, rights and freedom of movement as well as economic rights to all Tanzanians. “The right to education has been promoted through construction of schools and the allied infrastructure that were funded by part of the 1.3tri/- from the International Monetary Fund (IMF),” he said. “As a result, we have seen a number of enrolment to reach 108 per cent which was above the target,” added the minister. According to him, through improvement of services in the health sector at a cost of 203.14bn/- of the Rapid Credit Facility (RCF), the government under President Samia has promoted the right to life, which is very crucial for human beings. The minister also mentioned the ongoing efforts on construction of roads, railway, airports and marine transport as key moves in enhancing rights and freedom of movement among Tanzanians. He went on to explain that the right to economy has also been promoted through provision of loans to youths, women, people with disabilities (PWDs), as well as improving infrastructures for petty traders. Above all, President Samia has practically implemented the right and freedom of expression through lifting the ban on media outlets that had been banned from operating. “This is in line with assuring effective implementation of article 18 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that emphasizes freedom of expression,” said Dr Ndumbaro. Other social services that have been provided by the government included supply of water and electricity in urban and rural areas. Going forward, the minister commended THRDC for the job it has been doing, assuring total cooperation from the ministry. However, he reminded them to work in line with upholding national principles, constitution, laws and regulations. For her part, President of the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights, Judge Imani Aboud commended President Samia for her efforts to uphold human rights and good governance. “The African court and Africa human rights community have witnessed the significant move made by your personal leadership towards human rights and rule of law governance,” she said. She said President Samia has set a landmark within a few months and that the efforts being done are being seen both domestically and internationally.