YOUNG Africans slightly advanced towards the NBC Premier League's diadem after their 1-1 draw with Biashara United at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Monday. The draw has added them a point out of the targeted four points they need to claim the championship and dethrone their traditional rivals Simba who have won it four seasons consecutively. To firmly grab the throne, Yanga now need three points or a victory that will make them knock 67 unassailable points. More so, Yanga increased their chances of winning the title after Simba, their closest pursuers, were forced to a 1-1 draw with Geita Gold at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza this Sunday. Also, the most interesting in the game was Fiston Mayele's revival of his golden boot chase. Mayele scored his 14th goal on Monday to level with Geita Gold's George Mpole. The encounter was not a sliding platform for the league toppers as the hosts Biashara were strong and gave a fierce battle in all departments. Due to the game's difficulty, both sides did not score in the first 45 minutes. The visitors Yanga netted the opening goal in the 75th through Fiston Mayele, who chopped the ball above Biashara United goalkeeper Daniel Mgore and found it at the back of the net. Three minutes later, Biashara United responded quickly through Collins Opare, who completed George Awio's assist from the left side. Biashara United has remained at the table's fourteenth place after lodging 24 points. The results have not brought any luck, as they have not elevated from the playoff zone. In the encounter, Yanga came in the Kambarage stadium with a mission to win the maximum points. They made their first attempt in the 10th minute of the game through Chico Ushindi, who completed Farid Mussa set through, but his strike ended in Mgore's hands. Three minutes later, Mayele well sculptured a set through to Dickson Job, who missed a clear chance in front of Mgore. A few minutes before the first half ended, Mayele failed to utilise Djuma Shaban's set through, as his header went wide. Biashara United picked a freekick in the 50th minute; Christian Zigah took the set-piece, but Abutwalib Mshery stood firm and punched off Collins Opare's header. After a long battle, the visitors finally got a goal, Mayele completing Djuma Shaban's set-piece as he chopped the ball above Mgore. Biashara did not take long to level through Collins Opare, who completed George Awio's assist from the left side after skilfully winning the ball against Yanga's skipper Bakari Mwanyeto. No team managed to change the scoreboard until the end of the 90-minute thriller.