PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has given a two-month ultimatum to 30 employees of Sengerema District Council in Mwanza Region, including former District Executive Director Magesa Mafuru to return misused public funds. Mr Majaliwa issued the directive on Saturday at the meeting with councillors and staff of Sengerema District Council during a working visit to inspect development projects being implemented in Mwanza region and asked the District Commissioner to ensure that all people mentioned return the money in time. The Prime minister said the employees who were accused of embezzlement and failing to manage revenue collection include the former Treasurer, nine Ward Executives, three Village Executives, six Fisheries Officers, one Livestock Officer, eight collections agents and one revenue officer. He handed over the names of the servants to the Acting Commander of Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in Mwanza region, Mr Mashauri Elisante for further action. "If there is a public servant who thinks this phase of the government is just joking, he or she is deceiving himself or herself because the Government will deal with them. Regional and District Commissioners should take action to create discipline among civil servants," said Mr Majaliwa. Mr Majaliwa added that the special audit report conducted by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) on development project funds has revealed that some of the Sengerema District Council’s employees were not complying with the six-phase government expectations and that was not right. He said that the CAG report showed there was misuse of public funds in various development projects being implemented in the Sengerema Council. "The government will not bear with them and will take stern actions against all those responsible for the embezzlement.” The Prime Minister said after the investigation the CAG found out that the council collected 3bn/- in the Local Government Revenue Collection Information System (LGRCIS). "However, 645.2m/- of these collections were not deposited to banks.” Mr Majaliwa said that an additional 79m/- was spent on unspecified activities and 280m/- was paid to the collection agents as a commission with the approval from the former District Executive Director. Moreover, the council did not collect a total of 141.8m/- from the Nyakato, Isamilo, Kilabela, Nyamatongo and Busisi plots survey project in the 2018/2019 financial year. Following the embezzlements, Mr Majaliwa has instructed the Regional and District Commissioners across the country to effectively supervise all financial statements of projects.