THE European Union (EU) has expressed its commitment to defend independence and security of the media and journalists in its territories and other areas of cooperation with other countries across the globe. Speaking during a meeting with media stakeholders in Arusha on Mnonday ahead of the World Press Freedom Day to be held today, the Head of the EU Delegation to Tanzania, Ambassador Manfredo Fanti, said the EU is preparing a media freedom act to protect journalists in its jurisdiction. “The European media freedom act aims at providing common rules and safeguards to protect independence and pluralism of the media,” the envoy said during the meeting which was graced by the Minister for Information, Communication and Information Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye. President Samia Suluhu Hassan is today expected to grace the climax of the event to be held under a theme; “World Press Freedom Day, Journalism under Digital Siege”, which is slated to be held in Arusha Region. Ahead of the meeting, Amb Fanti expressed concerns that digital technology has provided a new instrument for the media industry but the same has also led to problems such as disinformation. “There are people who pretend to be journalists who spread disinformation and, thus, jeopardise the real profession of journalism,” he observed, adding; “Ensuring freedom of media and safety of journalists is a universal challenge although political situations and legislations differ from countries and continents.” The envoy was of the view that threats against the media are almost the same worldwide, noting that the European Union registered about 439 physical attacks against media and journalists in the year 2021. “Threats against journalists and the media are taking a new form particularly through digital attacks and disinformation,” he stated. On the other hand, the envoy said the European Commission has put in place a proposal for the establishment of Digital Services Act aimed at holding the major social media platforms accountable to make their systems fairer, safer and more transparent. “The EU will continue speaking up against any restriction on freedom of expression and censorship, both online and offline, in violation of international human rights law. “Freedom of the press is a cornerstone of democratic societies, which can thrive only if citizens have access to reliable information and can make informed choices. Press freedom means security for all,” he explained. Speaking at the same occasion, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Regional Director for Eastern Africa, Prof Hubert Gijzen, said the media industry has undergone various transformations in the digital era. Prof Gijzen was as well irked that the digital media industry is awash with misinformation due to citizen journalism. The UNESCO representative told delegates at the meeting that the commemoration of World Press Freedom Day was announced through the Windhoek Declaration of 1991. On her part, the Head of Communications at the African Union (AU), Ms Wynne Musabayana, said the continental organisation has a mandate to change the narrative of negative reporting of the African continent. “AU is the friend of the media and it is our mandate to speak for our member states to change the negative stories about the African continent,” Ms Musabayana stated. The official said the continental organisation has put in place a communication department which works with the media in disseminating information on its activities.