ALL is set for the premiering of the Royal Tour documentary in Zanzibar today, with President Hussein Mwinyi scheduled to grace the event. At a media briefing on Friday, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports Dr Hassan Abbasi said the much awaited event to be held at the Golden Tulip Hotel- Airport will also be attended by several other dignitaries, artists, and stakeholders in tourism. This comes after a similar event held in Arusha and will be followed by Dar es Salaam the following day, after Zanzibar. "This is a special event in Zanzibar resulting from the great work done by both President Samia Suluhu Hassan and President Hussein Mwinyi in promoting our country through the documentary. The documentary will bring in many benefits, mainly attracting a big number of tourists. Dr Abassi talked about the history of the Royal Tour, saying that after the launch in Zanzibar, it will be followed by Dar es Salaam, and that the film will be screened in all local televisions. 'Bega kwa bega na mama Samia' group Chairperson in Unguja, Ms Bishara Ame Ahmed, one of the events' organisers said: "We are also organising a road show after the launch tomorrow (today)." Ms Mwanaidi Mohamed Ali, Chief Executive Officer of Zanzibar Maisha Bora Foundation (ZMBF) said: "It is a mixture of fun, new experience and opportunities for stakeholders." Food vendors, tour guides and operators, shop keepers, hotels and others, she said, will benefit from economic opportunities. Mr Ali Amour- Chairperson, Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC), stated that his organisation was fully prepared to tap every opportunity that would come with the documentary. "We are confident that the documentary will open up investment opportunities in various sectors and promote tourism. Zanzibar will benefit a lot, especially in the Blue Economy," Mr Amour said. Mr Seif Masoud Miskry, former chairman of the Zanzibar Association Tourism Investors (ZATI), noted: "It is an opportunity for Zanzibaris and Tanzanians, let us utilise it. We thank Mama Samia." "The documentary will vitalise the tourism sector in both Zanzibar and Tanzania mainland where tourism potentials have not been fully utilised," said Mr Ali Saleh from ACT- Wazalendo Party. Ambassador Ali Karume remarked that President Samia needs support in her efforts to promote the country’s richness, saying she has proved that she is a committed leader. The Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Deputy Secretary General responsible for Zanzibar affairs Dr Abdalla Juma Mabodi thanked both President Samia and Dr Mwinyi for being creative in moving the country forward for the benefit of the majority Tanzanians, arguing that the Royal Tour documentary will make a difference. Retired Zanzibar Second Vice-President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi said the Royal Tour film is a challenge to Tanzanians and institutions engaging in tourism sector. “Our leaders Mama Samia and Dr Mwinyi have opened the door. Therefore, we need to act and utilise the opportunity." Dr Saada Mkuya Salum- Zanzibar Minister for Finance and Planning also said: “Mama has planned well; we should prepare for the huge positive impact of the film on our tourism industry. We should improve other services so that many tourists can get what they expect.