PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Medical Stores Department (MSD) procurement officers implicated in the recent Controller and Auditor General (CAG) report be relieved of their duties, pending further investigations. The Premier equally directed the Procurement and Supplies Professionals and Technicians Board (PSPTB) to take charge of the course of action to be taken against their colleagues. Mr Majaliwa, who was speaking shortly before opening the Public Procurement week here on Thursday, insisted on sensitivity when managing public resources, urging those overseeing Procurement Management Units (PMUs) to exhibit professionalism when handling taxpayers’ money. “We will not tolerate such malpractices from your dishonest colleagues, we cannot be dishing out more money on less equipment,” he observed. The Prime Minister was referring to a dossier by the CAG tabled before President Samia Suluhu Hassan in March this year, which laid bare shortcomings in procurement processes at the Health Ministry’s department. According to the Premier, the alleged procurement officers had inflated prices of medical equipment for self-financial gains. “As a result, we ended up paying more money and received very little equipment at our medical facilities,” he said. Mr Majaliwa reminded the more than 1000 procurement officers gathered at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) on the importance of adhering to professional code of ethics when discharging their duties. He said the procurement officers were bestowed with a sensitive role of handling and managing public resources, cautioning that corruption and other malpractices in procurement procedures could set a precedent among Tanzanians aspiring to pursue a career in such a field. “Such abuse of office should be condemned in the strongest terms possible,” the Premier suggested. According to the Prime Minister, more than 70 per cent of government money stemming from taxpayers' hard-earned cash was spent on public procurement. He equally urged the officers to grant and award tenders to bidders based on merit, and not through corruption or other favours. Mr Majaliwa further challenged heads of PMUs to advise the government accordingly when it wants to do bulk procurement of vehicles. “Some companies come with a litany of conditions which may end up hurting our economy,” he said. The Premier also reserved praise for the Government Procurement Services Agency (GPSA) for rescuing 807.9bn/- at the Dar es Salaam Port. Earlier on, the Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Mr Hamad Hassan Chande informed Mr Majaliwa that 780 institutions had subscribed with the Tanzanian National e-Procurement System (TANePS), noting that the level of compliance to the system had increased from 73 per cent to 78.8 per cent by 2019. “Our Ministry will review some of the policies and provisions to ensure that such a system fits in well in the current context,” assured the Deputy Minister. He further disclosed that the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) was engaging the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in addressing compliance in public procurement.