THE Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Professor Adolf Mkenda has been impressed with the progress of the construction of Dodoma Technical College (DTC) that has so far been completed by 50 per cent. The college, whose construction cost is 100bn/-, will be the fourth largest of its kind in the country. It will have the same level with Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MUST), and Arusha Technical College. Speaking recently to reporters after his official visit to inspect the development of the project located in Nala vicinity in Dodoma city, Prof Mkenda stated that the college would be a catalyst for bringing revolution in vocational education. "We are currently reviewing the Education and Training Policy (2014) and curriculum; we expect that new policy and curriculum will revolutionize our education system completely; our education would change into competency-based, that would enable the graduates to be employable," he insisted. In the ongoing review, more than 100,000 recommendations have been received, and in December this year the draft policy will be submitted to the government for approval. Prof Mkenda noted that the competence-based curriculum needs a reliable infrastructure, and the construction of DTC and other vocational training centers would add value to promotion of industrial economy and self-reliance. Minister Mkenda added that the government has 43 vocational training centers, vowing that at the end of this year the number will almost double to 77 due to the ongoing construction of new VCTs at various regions and districts. Prof Mkenda was optimistic that the construction of the DTC will complete in time and would be handed over to the government in December this year, and he hinted that President Samia Suluhu Hassan may grace the launching event. "President Samia is committed to ensuring that there is increased training on technical skills so that graduates can create self-employments,” he said. Additionally, Prof Mkenda gave a green light to the Ministry to start a process of recruiting and allocating staff including trainers to the DTC. For his part, the Director of Vocational Education from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Noel Mbonde, hinted that the college will start by offering three priority disciplines which are energy, biomedical engineering, and civil engineering.