VICE-PRESIDENT Dr Philip Mpango has appealed for peace and conflict resolution in war-torn neighbouring countries so that refugees in the country can return to their own countries. Dr Mpango told the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) that Tanzania has been at the forefront in finding peace resolutions in countries facing various conflicts, including wars in order to reduce the number of refugees fleeing those countries. “What is needed is to ensure a permanent solution is found in conflict-affected nations so that the refugees may return to their own lands and participate in development activities,” Vice-President said when he held talks with UNHCR Country Representative, Mahoua Parums at Chamwino State House, in Dodoma. Dr Mpango assured her that the government is committed to continuing working closely with UNHCR in the country in hosting and serving refugees. For her part, Ms Parums commended the government of Tanzania for continuing to play a key role in hosting refugees since it has hosted many refugees. “The contribution of Tanzania in receiving and serving refugees will never be forgotten. This is coupled with the country’s hospitality that refugees are given by the Tanzanians,” she said. Moreover, Ms Parums said she was happy to be in the country that is united and has solidarity with other nations in solving various challenges, including the issue of refugees. As of January 1, 2022, Tanzania had hosted over 246,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, mainly from Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Of these, some 83 per cent live in the Ndutu and Nyarugusu refugee camps located in the north-western region of Kigoma. Tanzania has had a long history of generosity in hosting refugees. UNHCR supports the government of Tanzania in providing refugees and asylum seekers with international protection and durable solutions. UNHCR works primarily with the Ministry of Home Affairs as well as other government ministries to deliver aid to the population of concern. In another development, Dr Mpango on Friday also met and held talks with representatives of the Commonwealth led by Secretary-General of the Community Ms Patricia Scotland.