MWANZA Regional Commissioner (RC), Engineer Robert Gabriel, has launched the ‘USAID Afya Yangu' project that has the main objective to eliminate maternal and child mortality deaths in the region. The five-year project, from January this year, is sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) at a tune of over USD 66.5 million (about 154.5bn/-) and implemented by Jhpiego Health International organization, in collaboration with the government and other stakeholders. “The problem is big, as we recorded about 164 mother and 483 newborn deaths, last year. The number is big, a reason why the government keeps on equiping health facilities and increase health staff to reduce the deaths,” said the RC. He added that the root cause of maternal deaths was mainly serious bleeding during delivery, use of herbs to enhance the labour pains, anemia, epilepsy in pregnancy as well as poor nutrition to expectant mothers, a situation that needs collaborative efforts to rescue mothers and newborns. He urged the project implementers to prioritize public education on nutrition issues and use simple language according to the understanding level of the targeted audience. “For instance, don’t just mention an important of Vitamin C, but tell the people to consume foods, like fruits and vegetables that provide such a vitamin. They will easily understand the matter,” recommend the RC. Mwanza Regional Reproductive Health Coordinator, Ms Secilia Mrema, commented that capacity building to health service providers over mother and child care is among the project’s priority. Staff will be trained to sharpen their skills and broaden understanding of mother and child care, so as to combat deaths. The Project Evaluator, Dr Lusekelo Njonge, said that ‘USAID Afya Yangu' is set to benefit 11 regions of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, involving activities on mother and child care, newborns health, children under five as well as reproductive health. The project is set to cover between three to five million women of reproductive age from 15 to 49 years, as well as all pregnant women in the targeted regions. Mwanza is one of the project beneficiaries after the region ranked number two at national level, for the past two  consecutive years, in having highest maternal and mortality rates.